=============================
DNFC REVELATIONS
=============================

Tittle:
Jesus Our Lord

Revelation:
Jesus  Our  Lord Not  only  is  He  Savior,  Intercessor  and  Advocate,  but He is  our  Lord  and  Head. Col.  2:6-7,  notice  this  translation  :  "As  therefore  ye received  Christ  Jesus  the  Lord,  so  walk  in  him,  rooted and  builded  up  in  him,  and  established  in  your  faith, even  as  ye  were  taught,  abounding  in  thanksgiving." I  read  that  over  and  over  many  times.  That  scripture was  like  a  storehouse  filled  with  priceless  treasure, but  I  couldn't  seem  to  get  a  key  to  it.  Then  this translation  came.  Then  I  saw  what  it  meant. He wanted  me to be rooted  and  established  in  the reality  of  the  Lordship  of  Jesus  over  me. When I first  began  to  study  about  His  Lordship,  I  was afraid  of  Him.  I  had  a  feeling  that  it  meant  slavery  to me,  but  it  didn't.  It  meant  just  what  the  23rd  Psalm says,  "The  Lord  is  my  shepherd.  I  shall  not  want."  I like  the  other  rendering  better:  "Jehovah  is  my Shepherd,  I  do  not  want."  Why?  He  maketh  me  to  lie down in  green  pastures  where  food  is  abundant, where  water  is  near  me,  where  I  am  fully  protected from  the  elements  and  from  my  enemies.
The  word  Lord  means Bread-provider,  Shield  and Protector.  He  is  all  that  a  husband  can  mean  to  his wife.  He  is  all  that  a  lover  can  mean  to  his  beloved. The  Father  wants  me  to  be  rooted  and  grounded  and built  up  this  blessed  Truth.  He  wants  my  faith  to  rest upon  absolute  certainty  of  the  Lordship  of  Jesus  over me.  Then  my heart will  be  full  of  abounding  joy  and thanksgiving. You  see,  until  we  know  about  the  Lordship  of  Jesus  at the  right  hand  of  the  Father,  there  will  never  be  that quiet  restfulness  in  our  spirit.  You  can  find  that practically  all  the  believers  that  are  living  beneath their  privileges,  are  having  a  hard  time  in  their spiritual  life.  They  have  never  been  instructed  in  the ministry  of  Jesus  at  the  right  hand  of  the  Father. Years  ago  I  held  a  blessed  campaign  in  Moncton,  N. B.,  Canada.  Months  afterwards  I  returned  for another  campaign,  and  I  asked  the  congregation, "What  truth  helped  you  the  most?" Many voices  answered  back,  "Your  teaching  about Jesus'  ministry  at  the  right  hand  of  the  Father."  Jesus, the  Surety  of  the  New  Covenant  He  is  not  only  our High  Priest,  Savior,  Intercessor,  Advocate  and  Lord, but  there  is  another  priceless  ministry  of  my  seated Lord.
He is  the  "Surety  of  the  New  Covenant."  Heb.  7:18, "For  there  is  a  disannulling  of  a  foregoing commandment because  of  its  weakness  and unprofitableness  (for  the  law  made  nothing  perfect), and  a bringing  in  thereupon  of  a  better  hope, through  which  we  draw  nigh  unto  God." By  a single  stroke  He  has  cleared  up  the  issue  of  that First  Covenant  and  the  Law. Because  of  their  weakness  they  could  not  make  men Righteous;  they  could  not  make  men  holy;  they  could not  give  Eternal  Life.  Heb.  10:1-3  will  throw  much light  on  this.  "For  the  law  having  a  shadow  of  the good  things  to  come,  not  the  very  image  of  the  things, can  never  with  the  same  sacrifices  year  by  year, which  they  offer  continually,  make  perfect  them  that draw  nigh.  "Else  would  they  not  have  ceased  to  be offered?  because  the  worshippers,  having  been  once cleansed,  would  have  had  no  more  consciousness  of sins. "But  in  those  sacrifices  there  is  a  remembrance  made of  sin  year  by  year.  "For  it  is  impossible  that  the blood  of  bulls  and  goats  should  take  away  sins."  But there  has  come  a  New  Covenant,  and  on  the  basis  of that  New  Covenant  we  may  be Born  Again,  born  of Heaven,  born  of  God,  receive  the  Nature  and  Life  of the  Father  God.  We  may  become  the  very Righteousness  of  God  in  Him.  Can  anyone overestimate  the  value  of  such  a  Covenant.  This  is  a  Covenant  of  Love,  a  Covenant  of  Life,  a  Covenant  of the  New  Creation. Heb.  7:20-24,  "And  inasmuch  as  it  is  not  without  the taking  of  an  oath  (for  they  indeed  have  been  made priests  without  an  oath  ;  but  lie  with  an  oath  by  him that  saith  of  him,  The  Lord  sware  and  will  not  repent himself,  Thou  art  a  priest  for,  ever)."  You  see,  Jesus was  outside  of  the  priestly  family.  They  became priests  by  being  born  into  the  priesthood  naturally. The  oldest  son  was  always  the  High  Priest.  But  Jesus was  a Priest  by  an  oath-of  Jehovah.  "The  Lord  sware and  will  not  repent  himself,  Thou  art  a  priest  for ever." Now notice  this  great  sentence:  "By  so  much  also hath  Jesus  become  the  surety  of  a  better  covenant. And  they  indeed  have  been  made  priests  many  in number,  because  that  by  death  they  are  hindered from  continuing;  but  he,  because  he  abideth  forever, hath  his  priesthood  unchangeable."  There  is  a  priest who abideth  forever  as  the  surety  of  this  New Covenant.  Back  of  this  New  Covenant  then,  what  we call  the  New  Testament,  we  have  Jesus  as  its  Surety. From  Matt.  I  to  Rev.  22,  Jesus  and  His  throne  are  back of  every  word. "No  word  from  God can be void  of  fulfillment." Now you can quote  Jer.  1  :12:  "1  watch  over  my  word to  fulfill  it."  Jesus  can  say,  "Heaven  and  earth  can pass  away,  but  my  word  can  never  pass  away."  That is  the  Word  of  the  New Covenant.  His  blood  is  the  red seal  upon  the  document  of  this  Covenant.  On  the ground  of  the  integrity  of  that  indissoluble  covenant, you  and  I  can  build  a  Faith  that  cannot  be  shaken. "He  Sat  Down"  Now you can understand  what this beautiful  expression  means  that  is  used  so  many times  in  Hebrews-"He  sat  down." We go back to Heb.  1 :3  and  feast  our  spirits  upon  it. "Who,  being  the  effulgence  of  his  glory  (or  the  very outshining  of  his  glory),  and  the  very  image  of  his substance,  and  upholding  all  things  by  the  word  of his  ability."  The  word  translated  power  means "ability.  All  the  ability  of  Deity  is  back  of  that Covenant.  Now  notice  carefully:  "When  he  had  made purification  (or  substitution)  for  sins,  sat  down  on the  right  hand  of  the  Majesty  on  high." He is  in  the  highest  seat  in  the  universe  and  holds  the highest  office  in  the  universe,  and  He  is  my  Lord. He is  the  head  of  the  Body,  and  "of  His  fullness  have we all  received,  and  grace  upon  grace."  How  rich  we are.  We  can  never  again  talk  of  our  lack,  of  our weakness,  of  our  unworthiness,  because  that  great Substitutionary  sacrifice  that  He  wrought  for  us  has guaranteed  to  us  Eternal  Life,  and  a  standing  with the  Father,  victory  over  our  enemies,  peace  passeth all  understanding,  joy  beyond  words.  All  are  ours because  of  what  He  is  for  us  now  at  the  right  hand  of the  Majesty  on  High.

Why Natural Man Cannot  Know  Himself:
MAN in the Garden lived  in  the  realm  of  the  spirit. He had perfect  fellowship  with  God.  His  spirit dominated  him.  Then  sin  came  and  he  was  driven from  the  presence  of  God.  From  that  moment  he lived  under  the  domination  of  his  senses.  These  five senses  became  his  master.  His  spirit  lost  dominion the  moment  that  he  became  spiritually  dead,  a partaker  of  Satan's  nature.  This,  you  understand, happened  when  he sinned.  The  real  man  is  a  spirit being,  but  the  moment  that  spiritual  death  took possession  of  his  spirit,  his  senses  dominated. He lost  his  approach  to  God  the  moment  that  he sinned.  The  nature  that  he  received  made  him antagonistic  to  God.  Rom.  8:7,  "Because  the  mind  of the  senses  is  enmity  against  God;  for  it  is  not  subject to  the  law  of  God,  neither  indeed  can  it  be:  so  they that  are  governed  by  the  senses  cannot  please  God." This  translation  of  the  Greek  word  Sarx  to  "senses" instead  of  "flesh,"  gives  us  the  true  intent  of  the word.  You  remember  1 Cor. 2:14  declares,  "Now  the  natural  man  (the  man  of  the senses)  receiveth  not  the  things  of  the  Spirit  of  God: for  they  are  foolishness  unto  him;  and  he  cannot know them,  because  they  are  spiritually understood."
So  when man fell  and  his  spirit  received  the  nature of  the  adversary,  he  really  became  a  stranger  to himself.  He  is  a  spirit  being  and  is  no  longer dominated  by  himself  but  by  his  body  in  which  he lives.  It  made  him  a  slave  to  his  body  instead  of  a master  over  it.  You  understand  that  when  this  thing happened  in  the  Garden,  he  lost  contact  with  God, lost  his  ability  to  approach  Him,  and  he  went  out  into the  world  to  live  by  his  senses.  We  have  a  modern saying,  that  "man  lives  by  his  wits."  That  is  another way  of  expressing  the  same  fact. We know that man cannot contact  God  through  his reasoning  faculties;  that  his  only  contact  with  Him  is with  his  spirit.  Having  died  spiritually,  he  is  unable to  make  this  contact. It  is  very  difficult  for  man's  language  to  convey  God's thought.  The  Hebrew  language  is  a  dead  language and  it  is  a  limited  language.  We  have  many  words  for which  the  Hebrew  language  has  no  equivalent.  For instance,  the  word  "Ruach,"  translated  spirit,  can mean air,  anger,  blast,  breath,  cool,  courage,  mind, quarters,  side,  spirit,  tempest,  wind,  vain,  windy;  and in  one  place  it  has  been  translated  whirlwind.  By  this you  can  see  how  limited  the  Hebrew  language  was  to convey  God's  thoughts. That  is  the  reason  why  the  word  "Ruach,"  translated spirit,  is  often  misunderstood  by  the  sense knowledge  of  translators.  You  remember  that  man's thoughts  are  not  always  God's  thoughts.  Man  was Love's  product  created  to  be  His  child  and companion.  He  was  created  in  God's  class  of  being,  in His  image  and  in  His  likeness.  God  is  Eternal.  Man  is Eternal. God  is  a  spirit.  Man  is  a  spirit.  Man  was  so  Created that  he  could  partake  of  God's  Nature  and  become God's  child.  Now  mark  this  fact:  Man  cannot  be spiritual  unless  he  is  a  spirit. He cannot  know  spiritual  things  unless  he  is  a  spirit. He cannot  partake  of  God's  Nature  unless  he  is  in God's  class  of  being.  You  can  understand  now  the calamity  that  befell  man  when  his  spirit  lost  control over  his  senses. In  that  moment  his  senses  governed  his  spirit.  All  the knowledge  that  natural  man  has,  has  come  through these  five  avenues  of  the  body-seeing,  hearing, tasting,  smelling,  feeling. The  brain  has  no  capacity  to  think  independent  of sense  evidences.  A  child  that  is  born  without  sight,  or hearing,  or  feeling,  would  be  called  an  imbecile, though  its  brain  was  as  perfect  as  the  brain  of  any child.  That  brain  had  no  contact  with  the  world because  the  senses  failed  to  function.  Now  we  can understand  that  man's  physical  contact  is  with  the physical.  His  mental  contact  is  with  the  mental.  His spirit  then  can  contact  only  the  spiritual.  If  man's reasoning  faculties  cannot  contact  God,  then  it  is  up to  his  spirit  to  make  that  contact. Man's  reasoning  faculties  are  utterly  dependent upon  the  senses.  Sense  knowledge  is  unable  to contact  his  spirit  in  any  intelligent  way  until  after that  spirit  has  been  Recreated,  received  the  Nature  of God,  and  his  reasoning  faculties  have  been  renewed and  brought  into  harmony  with  the  Recreated  spirit. Now we can understand  the  difficulties  of psychologists.  You  understand  this  is  a  study  of  the mind  of  man,  and  if  the  psychologist  doesn't  know about  the  spirit  of  man,  about  what  happened  to  the spirit  of  man  in  the  Garden,  he  will  be  unable  to approach  this  subject  with  any  clarity  of  thought. Most  of  our  psychologists  deny  that  man  is  a  spirit. He is  simply  a  psychical  or  soulical  man.  He  denies the  existence  of  the  spirit,  and  this  denial  makes  it impossible  for  the  spirit  to  function.  Now  you  can  see why natural  man  cannot  know  himself,  because  he  is a  spirit. The  senses  cannot  register  anything  of  the  spirit  or give  him  any  spirit  knowledge.  One  who  knows anatomy  and  physiology  may  not  know  much  about the  mind  and  he may not know man himself.  All  he knows  is  connected  with  the  physical.  Natural  man  is in  the  same  condition. We cannot  know spirit  or  spiritual  things,  so  he cannot  know  himself,  for  he  is  a  spirit. This  is  the  reason  that  modern  psychology  is  ofttimes misleading.  Modern  psychologists  are  majoring functional  psychology  or  psychology  based  on  the study  of  the  five  senses  and  their  reaction  upon  the mind.  The  New Creation  man  finds  a  new  self  in Christ,  and  that  new  self  becomes  almost independent  of  the  senses  when  he  comes  into closest  fellowship  with  the  Father.  "Wherefore,  if  any man is  in  Christ,  he  is  a  New  Creation,"  a  new  self. The  real  self  has  been  made  anew,  Recreated.  That means  his  spirit  has  been  Recreated.  It  is  imperative now that  the  mind  which  derives  all  of  its  impulses, all  of  its  knowledge  from  the  five  senses,  should come  under  the  dominion  of  this  new  Recreated spirit  or  self. This  can  only  come  as  man  begins  to  study  the  Word and  then  begins  to  practice  and  live  it.  It  is  a  fact  of great  importance  that  every  believer  should  know, that  there  is  no  such  thing  as  understanding  the Word until  the  mind  is  renewed.  The  reason  for  that is,  that  the  Word  is  the  work  of  the  Holy  Spirit  and  it is  a  spiritual  thing,  and  sense  knowledge  cannot understand  spiritual  things.  So  it  is  necessary  that his  mind  be  renewed  and  come  into  fellowship  with his  spirit.  It  is  almost  imperative  that  this  Recreated spirit  should  gain  the  dominance  over  his  reasoning faculties. You  know how we often fight  our  conscience,  and how it  is  often  in  opposition  to  our  reasoning faculties.  That  conscience  is  the  voice  of  our  spirit.  If we should  learn  to  obey  our  conscience  we  could walk  continuously  in  fellowship  with  the  Word  and with  the  Father;  but  the  reason  is,  we  have  not learned  to  give  our  spirit  the  place  of  authority  and dominion  that  belongs  to  it.  Educating  Our  Spirits This  brings  us  to  another  phase  of  this  study.  Your spirit  can  be  educated  just  as  really  as  the  mind  is educated.  It  can  be  built  up  in  strength  just  as  the body  can  he  built  up.  That  comes  by  meditation  in the  Word. By  practicing  the  Word.  By  giving  the  Word  the  first place.  By  instantly  obeying  the  voice  of  our  spirit. After  awhile  you  can  know  the  will  of  the  Father  in all  the  minor  details  of  life,  because  He communicates  with  your  spirit,  not  with  the reasoning  faculties.  You  know  Paul  speaks  of  the mind  of  the  spirit.  Rom.  8:6,  "For  the  mind  of  the senses  leads  us  into  the  realm  of  spiritual  death,  but the  mind  of  the  spirit  (that  is  our  Recreated,I  spirit) leads  us  into  the  realm  of  life  and  peace."  The  Life there  is  "Zoe"-Eternal  Life-the  Nature  of  God. The  spirit  mentioned  here  is  the  Recreated  spirit,  not the  Holy  Spirit.  It  is  hard  for  us  to  accept  the  fact  that the  natural  man  is  ruled  by  the  five  senses. His  body  is  the  teacher  of  his  mind  and  he  cannot grow  in  knowledge  beyond  the  reactions  of  his senses  upon  his  brain.  The  New  Creation  man  has almost  an  unlimited  opportunity  of  growth  because his  spirit  has  received  the  Nature  of  God.  He  is  in perfect  fellowship  with  his  Father.  He  has  an unlimited  use  of  the  name  of  Jesus  that  the  natural man does  not  have.  He  has  the  Wisdom of  God,  for Jesus  is  made  unto  him  Wisdom.  Natural  man  has nothing  but  the  Wisdom  that  comes  to  him  through his  unrecreated  spirit. The  New Creation  man has  the  ability  of  God  at  his disposal.  You  see,  he  is  lifted  out  of  the  natural  realm into  the  spiritual  realm,  and  when  he  is  Recreated,  he has  the  privilege  of  having  the  Holy  Spirit,  who raised  Jesus  from  the  Dead,  to  come  and  make  His home in  his  body.  Now  you can understand  Rom. 12:1-2,  "I  beseech  you  there  fore,  brethren,  by  the mercies  of  God,  to  present  your  bodies  a  living sacrifice,  holy,  acceptable  to  God,  which  is  your spiritual  worship. "And  be  not  fashioned  according  to  this  age:  but  be ye  transfigured  by  the  renewing  of  your  mind,  that ye  may prove  what is  the  good  and  well-pleasing  and perfect  will  of  God." (Free  translation.)  This  shows  us  why  it  is  imperative to  have  the  body,  the  university  of  the  mind,  under the  control  of  the  Recreated  spirit.  This  New  Creation man does  not  walk  under  the  dominion  of  the  senses but  is  to  be  governed  by  the  Word  of  God. It  is  going  to  be  hard  for  us  to  see  that  this  physical body  of  ours  is  not  only  the  home  of  the  five  senses, but  that  these  five  senses  have  been  the  instructors and  teachers  of  the  brain. That  makes  the  body  the  university  of  the  brain.  The five  senses  are  the  instructors. This  body  is  the  laboratory  where  the  brain  receives all  of  its  instructions.  These  senses  are  five  avenues to  the  brain,  for  we  know  that  the  brain  cannot function  without  the  senses.  Here  are  some  facts  that may be hard to  assimilate.  The  brain  has  no  creative ability.  It  has  nothing  of  itself  by  which  it  can  create. It  is  dependent  upon  these  five  instructors.  The brain,  by  much  training,  can  advise  what  action  is best  after  the  senses  have  communicated,  but  if  the senses  never  function,  the  brain  will  never  develop. As  long  as  the  natural  human  spirit  is  held  in bondage  by  spiritual  death  it  has  no  creative  ability. This  can  be  seen  in  heathen  countries  where  they have  never  received  Eternal  Life. Spiritually  dead  men  in  those  countries  have  no creative  ability.  They  may  be  able  to  follow  blue prints;  they  can  imitate;  they  can  experiment  as  they do  in  chemistry,  but  it  must  end  there.  Man's  creative ability  is  not  in  the  reasoning  faculties.  Reader,  can't you  see  the  imperative  need  of  giving  to  the  youth  of our  nation  Eternal  Life? I  have  proven  to  you  in  another  chapter,  that  the children  who  have  received  Eternal  Life  in  the  teen age,  seldom  sow  wild  oats;  seldom  ever  become criminals.  They  are  easier  to  rear  and  to  control,  and they  are  more  responsive  to  the  appeal  of  the  Word of  God. Another  fact:  Inventors  know  this  to  be  true,  that after  hours  of  experimenting,  their  minds  are  worn and  tired.  They  stop  to  rest,  and  suddenly,  without any  effort,  the  thing  they  have  been  searching  for flashes  into  their  mind.  They  know  not  from  whence it  came,  but  it  has  arrived. What did  it?  Their  spirit  spoke  as  soon  as  the reasoning  faculties  were  silent  and  it  could  be  heard. Sometimes  it  comes  in  a  dream  or  in  the  early morning  when first  awaking. Psychologists  have  been  puzzled  by  this.  They  had  no answer  for  what  seemed  to  them  a  mystery,  so  they called  that  something  a  "sub-conscious  mind." But  we of  the  New Creation  know  there  is  no  such thing  as  a  sub-conscious  mind;  it  is  the  mind  of  the spirit.  It  is  the  spirit  struggling  to  express  itself.  But you  ask,  Can't  the  natural  man  cultivate  his  spirit? Yes,  but  it  will  be  the  cultivation  of  a  spirit  dominated spiritual  death.  That  has  given  to  us  spiritualism  with all  those  dangerous  cults  from  India;  given  to  us  the strange  miracles  of  the  occult  that  often  imitate  God.Here  are  more  facts  of  vital  importance.  The Recreated  spirit  becomes  the  fountain  of  all  the beautiful  things  that  Christianity  has  given  to  us. Gal.  5:22-25,  "But  the  fruit  of  the  spirit  is  love,  joy, peace,  longsuffering,  kindness,  goodness, faithfulness,  meekness,  self  control  ;  against  such there  is  no  law.  And  they  that  are  of  Christ  Jesus  have crucified  the  senses  with  the  passions  and  the  lusts thereof.  If  we  live  by  the  spirit,  by  the  spirit  let  us also  walk."  Notice,  it  is  the  fruit  of  the  spirit-not  the Holy  Spirit.  Translators  should  not  have  capitalized the  word  spirit. The  Holy  Spirit  does  not  bear  fruit  any  more  than Jesus  bears  fruit.  Jesus  said,  "I  am  the  vine,  ye  are  the branches."  It  is  the  branch  that  bears  fruit.  The  Holy Spirit  has  imparted  Eternal  Life  to  our  spirits.  That Life  is  the  Nature  of  the  Father  as  unveiled  in  Jesus, so  the  first  fruit  that  is  seen  in  the  New  Creation  is Love.  "We  know we have  passed  from  death  unto  life because  we  love  the  brethren."  And  then  a  joy  that  is unspeakable  and  full  of  glory  fills  our  whole  being. Next,  "peace  that  passeth  understanding"  becomes ours. The  troubled  heart  is  filled  with  quietness.  Then  as he  goes  out  to  contact  the  world,  longsuffering  is seen;  kindness,  goodness,  faithfulness,  meekness, self-control. These  are  the  fruits  of  the  Recreated  spirit.  You  see, the  Recreated  have  crucified  the  senses  and  brought them  into  subjection  to  the  Word.  "If  we  live  by  the spirit  (that  is,  our  Recreated  spirit),  let  us  also  walk by  it."  Now  you  will  notice  that  this  is  perfectly  in harmony  with  1  Cor.  13  where  it  tells  us  about  that Love-Law  that  is  to  govern  the  believer. "Love  suffers  long,  and  is  kind;  envies  not;  vaunteth not  itself  ;  is  not  puffed  up;  ;  does  not  behave  itself unseemly;  seeketh  not  its  own."  Those  are  the  fruits of  the  Recreated  spirit. It  is  vitally  important  that  we  understand  that  the Recreated  human  spirit  is  the  fountain  out  of  which Faith  flows.  Natural  man  has  only  sense  knowledge faith.  (Read  my  book  "The  Two  Kinds  of  Faith.") Natural  man  believes  in  the  things  he  sees  and  hears, the  things  that  have  come  to  him  through  the  five senses.  Like  Woolworth,  who  had  faith  in  a  five  and ten  cent  store.  Like  Rockefeller,  who  had  faith  in  oil and  gasoline.  Love  and  Faith  and  Courage  are  the fruits  of  the  Recreated  human  spirit.  The  conduct that  has  made  Christians  outstanding  in  society,  has been  the  fruit  of  the  Recreated  human  spirit. You  can  see  very  clearly  how  the  natural  man  could not  know  himself.  We  must  not  forget  that  the natural  human  spirit  can  be  cultivated.  We  see  this among the  occult  societies,  among  spiritualists  and others  that  are  in  close  fellowship  with  demons. James  3:13-18 says,  "Who  is  wise  and  understanding  among  you? let  him  show  by  his  good  life  his  works  in  meekness of  wisdom.  "But  if  ye  have  bitter  jealousy  and  faction in  your  heart,  glory  not  and  lie  not  against  the  truth. "This  wisdom  is  not  a  wisdom  that  cometh  down from  above,  but  is  earthly,  natural,  demonical." Then  in  the  17th  verse  it  tells  of  the  wisdom  that comes  down from above.  It  is  true  and  peaceable. This  contrast  is  suggestive.  Wisdom  is  not  a  product of  the  reasoning  faculties,  but  of  the  human  spirit. The  natural  human  spirit  can  contact  demonical forces,  just  as  the  Recreated  human  spirit  contacts God.  Christian  workers  should  become  familiar  with this  truth.  They  should  be  able  to  discern  at  once whether  a  person  is  dominated  by  a  demon  or  not.  In my work in praying  for  the  insane,  I  have  seen  much of  the  depths  of  Satan  and  how  he  gains  absolute mastery  over  the  reasoning  faculties  through  the natural  human  spirit.

What We Are In Christ:
In Christ” is the place for security. “Christ in us” is the ground for joy and peace that passes understanding. There are sixteen Scriptures that speak of Christ’s ministry and work in us. I can only refer you to a few of them, but they are tremendous in their possibilities for the believer. Galatians 2:20, “I have been crucified with Christ; and it is no longer I that live, but Christ that lives in me; and that life which I now live in the flesh I live in faith, which is in the Son of God, who loved me and gave Himself up for me.” The One with whom Paul was crucified, the One who loved him and gave Himself up for him now dwells in him. One can hardly take it in. Here is unveiled to us the most beautiful thrilling revelation. That this Christ, who loved us and gave Himself for us, has come into these bodies and made them His home! You notice that in 1 Corinthians 6:19, “Know you not that your bodies are the temples of the Holy Spirit that dwells in you,” there is a challenge as well as a promise. These frail bodies of ours that have been sin-touched and disease-marked are His tabernacles. They are His home; His place of abode. He lives in these bodies now. Who can estimate what that means? It tells me in Ephesians 1:19 and 20 that the same power that wrought in the dead body of Jesus is resident in me. Paul, speaking by the Spirit in Philippians 2:13, said, “For it is God who is at work within you, working and willing His own good pleasure.” God at work within me, in my body, in your body. When we grasp this, disease has lost its power and its place. Disease cannot do much when you are actually conscious of the indwelling Presence. In 1 John 4:4, John says, “You are of God my little children, and have overcome them; because greater is He that is in you than he that is in the world.” The great, mighty Omnipotent Creator God who spoke worlds into being, dwells in these bodies of ours. You see, when God comes in to take possession of us, He can think through our minds, love through our affections, and will through our wills. He can embed Himself, so to speak, in our spirits, and through our spirits dominate our spiritual and physical life. He can dominate over the members of our bodies until the words of our mouths and the meditation of our hearts will be acceptable in His sight; until we live and love and have our being in Him. Can’t you see how mighty it makes us? Can’t you see why Paul said he was independent of circumstances? Can’t you understand why the Spirit said, “all things work together for the good to them that are in Christ”? We are more than conquerors; we are more than victors; we are more than overcomers through this marvelous, matchless grace of God; the indwelling God of all grace.

Dead To Sin:
Eph. 2:1-3, “And you did he make alive, when you were dead through your trespasses and sins, wherein you once walked according to the prince of the powers of the air, of the spirit that now works in the sons of disobedience; among whom we also all once lived in the lusts of our flesh, doing the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature children of wrath.” “You were dead through your trespasses and sins.” The word “dead” has reference to our spirits. We had partaken of spiritual death, Satan's nature. We walked according to the course of this age that is ruled by the prince of the powers of the air. Satan sustains a three-fold relationship to man. John 8:44, “You are of your father the devil.” Satan is the spiritual father of man. 1 John 3:10, “In this the children of God are manifest, and the children of the devil.” John 14:30, “For the prince of the world comes: and he has nothing in me.” Satan is not only the spiritual father of this world, but he is the prince that rules the political world.
As the ruler of the world, his mind dominates the mind of the world. 2 Cor. 4:4, “In whom the god of this world has blinded the minds of the unbelieving.” He is not only the spiritual father of the political rulers of this world, but he is the god of this world. Man is worshipping Satan. It is a master stroke of Satan to get the church to believe in his philosophy rather than in God’s Word. We have many men today who are teaching the philosophy of Satan rather than the Word of God. Eph. 2:12, “That you were at that time separate from Christ, alienated from the commonwealth of Israel, and strangers from the covenants of the promise, having no hope and without God in the world.” They were not only spiritually dead, subjects of Satan, Satan's nature dominating them, but they were without a hope, hopeless- without God, godless, and in the world. All this shows the utter helplessness of the man outside of Christ to stand in the Father's presence without condemnation. Eph. 2:4-5, “But God, being rich in mercy, for his great love wherewith he loved us, even when we were dead through our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ (by grace you are saved).”

Alive In Christ:
We have seen the great need of a Redemption that would deliver us from our union by nature with the enemy, and his dominion over us. That Redemption was planned by God, wrought by Christ, brought to us by His Spirit through His own Word. Eph. 2:4-10, “But God, being rich in mercy, for his great love wherewith he loved us, even when we were dead through our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ.” In the mind of the Father then, when Christ was made alive, we were made alive. That became operative within us when we accepted Christ as Savior. You notice that we were not only made alive with Christ, but we were justified with Christ. Rom. 4:25, “Who was delivered up for our trespasses, and was raised for our justification.” We were declared righteous when Christ was declared righteous. When the heart sees this clearly, it is emancipation and deliverance. It is “together with Christ.” It is utter identification with Him. Then (He says) “By grace have you been saved.” “And raised us up with him, and made us to sit with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus.” The expression “Raised us up with Him,” spells out in letters of light our deliverance from Satan's dominion. If He raised us up with Him, then we are taken out of satanic bondage. “And made us to sit with Him in the heavenly places, in Christ Jesus.” Jesus, a Man, is seated at the right hand of the Father. His chair represents absolute dominion over the universe. He is our Representative. We are seated in Him. We are so utterly identified with Him that, in the mind of the Father, He and we are one. Oh, that our minds might grasp this. “For by grace have you been saved.” The Greek word that is translated “saved” here, is “sozo” which can be translated “healed”. The New Birth is the healing of our spirit. 

Saved By Grace:
This is the hardest truth it would seem, for the people to learn. All phases of Christianity where works are prominent are popular. But where we lay aside every human effort and trust the Word, and the Word alone, a storm of protest arises. Justification or the New Birth must be of grace, through faith. Receiving the Holy Spirit must be purely of grace, by faith. Luke 11:13, “How much more shall your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him?” It is not trying to buy it by consecration and surrender, but by simple faith in His Word. It is not trusting in our physical senses, but it is trusting in His simple Word. Eph. 2:6-10, “And raised us up with him, and made us to sit with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus.” For by grace have we been saved. Read it again, carefully. He made us alive together with Him. He raised us up with Him. He made us to sit with Him. All that we did was to accept that as our own, and it was ours. Verse eight, “For by grace have you been saved - through faith; and that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God.” Rom. 4:4-5, declares that, “Now to him that works, the reward is not reckoned as of grace, but as of debt. But to him that works not, but believes on him that justifies the ungodly, his faith is reckoned for righteousness.” If you work and struggle for your salvation, and pay a price for the Holy Spirit, then you receive the Holy Spirit as a payment on a debt for your work. But you receive the Holy Spirit as a gift of grace. You receive the answer to your prayer as a gift of grace. You receive your healing as a gift. It is all of grace. “Not works, lest any man should boast.” It is given, “To him that works not, but believes on him that justifies the ungodly.” Eph. 2:9, “Not of works, that no man should glory.” It is not of works, but it is all of grace through faith.

We Are His Handiwork:
This is almost contradictory to modern teaching. You would think, to hear men and women testify, that they were their own workmanship; that by the things that they have surrendered and given up or consecrated, they have become the sons and daughters of God. Eph. 2:10, “For we are His workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them.” We are God's workmanship, created in Christ. He took us, the raw material, sinners without hope and without life, poured into us His own very nature, made us His own very sons and daughters by nature. We had before been by nature the children of wrath. Now we are by nature, God's own sons and daughters. He not only created us in Christ Jesus, but He prepared good works that we should walk in them. In other words, He made provision whereby every one of us may walk in love, walk by faith. He made provision whereby the life of Jesus should be reproduced in us, in our daily contact with people. We are no longer to walk as the heathen walks, (Eph. 4:17-23) who walk in the vanity of their mind, because of the hardening of their heart. But we have not so learned Christ. We have put away, as concerning our former manner of life, the Old Man. Rom. 6:6, “Knowing this, that our old man was crucified with him, that the body of sin might be done away, that so we should no longer be in bondage to sin.” “The old man that grows corrupt” was nailed to the Cross in Christ, and was buried with Him, was put away. When Christ arose from the dead, He was free from this Old Man. As soon as we take Jesus Christ as our Savior, and come to know what grace really means, we are free too. You are to walk in the strength and grace of the risen Christ, not by willpower, but by faith in the Word. “For it is God who is at work within you.”

He Is Our Peace:
Rom. 5:1, “Being therefore justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ.” Here we have peace with God instead of confusion from sin. This comes when we accept Christ as Savior and Lord, and receive Eternal Life. Phil. 4:7, “And the peace of God, which passes all understanding, shall guard your hearts and your thoughts in Christ Jesus.” Here is the peace of God. God’s peace, God’s holy quietness, comes into the heart of the new-born in Christ. It is a peace we cannot understand. Jesus is that peace. Eph. 2:14, “For He is our peace.” This is perhaps the greatest blessing that can come to the human heart. Peace means “utter quietness,” “rest.” It is the rest of faith. We are no longer afraid of the Judgment, or of death, or of what man can do unto us. We are not afraid of Satan. We know that he is conquered. We know that we rule over him. We know that he, and his works, are beneath our feet in Christ. This is the peace that Jesus spoke of in John 14:27, “Peace I leave with you; My peace I give unto you.” The disciples could not help but recognize how differently Jesus accepted the Cross and its suffering, than the thieves did that were crucified with Him. They could not help but notice how utterly quiet, and peaceful, and restful, He was in the Judgment Hall of Pilate. So, when He says, “My peace I leave with you” - at once our heart reaches out for it. We are surrounded by Pilate’s judgment halls everywhere. The scourge of tongues, the bitterness of the world mind confronts us everywhere. We need this peace. John 16:33, “These things have I spoken unto you, that in Me you may have peace. In the world you have tribulation: but be of good cheer; I have overcome the world.” If this was purely the dream of the man called “Paul,” then he could write novels or dramas such as no Dickens, or Shakespeare ever approximated. But it was not the dream of Paul; it was the dream of the Father God. Eph. 2:15-16, “That he might create in himself of the two one new man, so making peace; and might reconcile them both in one body to God through the cross, having slain the enmity thereby.” There was enmity between the Jew under Law, and the Gentile without Law. Now that enmity is slain when the Jew and the Gentile are Born Again, and both of them come into the body of Christ where they are “one new man.” This New Creation teaching is the master stroke of God. 2 Cor. 5:17-18, “Wherefore if any man is in Christ, he is a new creature: the old things are passed away; behold, they are became new. But all these things are of God, who reconciled us to himself through Christ.” If God had simply forgiven man what he had done, and did nothing more, man would continue to commit sin. But God does not forgive the sinner. He makes him a New Creation. He remits, wipes out, all that the sinner has ever done. He stops a man being a sinner, and makes him a saint by the New Creation. He imparts to him His own nature. Old things pass away. All things become new in Christ. Eph. 4:24, “And put on the new man, that after God has been created in righteousness and holiness of truth.” This New Creation is made out of righteousness, so he is righteousness. He is made out of holiness, so he is holy. He is made out of truth, so he is real. The Father actually unveils His very genius in this New Birth. We are the workmanship of God in Christ Jesus. 

What We Are In Christ:
Rom. 3:24, “Being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus.” Our redemption is in Christ. No one can rob us of it. It was God's own work. He is satisfied with it. Eph. 1:7, “In whom we have our redemption through his blood, the remission of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace.” It is according to the riches of His grace. Not a beggarly Redemption, barely redeemed, but a vast God-sized Redemption. Col. 1:13-14, “Who delivered us out of the authority of darkness, and translated us into the kingdom of the Son of His love; in whom we have our redemption, the remission of our sins.” It translated us out of Satan's realm into His own Love Kingdom. In this translation, He made us sons. 1 Cor. 6:20, “For you were bought with a price.” 1 Peter 1:18-19, “Knowing that you were redeemed, not with corruptible things, with silver or gold, from your vain manner of life handed down from your fathers; but with precious blood, as of a lamb without blemish and without spot, even the blood of Christ.” Redeemed with the blood of Christ. Redeemed from Satan. Redeemed from the claims of justice. The price was paid to justice. 1 Cor. 7:23, “You were bought with a price; become not bondservants of men.” Gal. 5:1, “For freedom did Christ set us free: stand fast therefore, and be not entangled again in a yoke of bondage.” Stand fast in your liberty. God set you free. You are free. Satan has no claim on you. Justice has no claim on you. Neither Satan nor Justice can hold you. You are a New Creation, a child of God. You have been redeemed from the hand of your enemy. You are to take this fact seriously. You are to order your life accordingly. Rom. 6:14, “For sin shall not have dominion over you.” Satan was defeated by the Master. That defeat stripped him of his ability to take you captive again, without your cooperation. You see, there are two sides to Redemption. One is Jesus paying the price of your redemption, satisfying the claims of justice. And the other, is Jesus defeating your enemy and breaking his dominion. Col. 2:15, “Having despoiled the principalities and the powers, he made a show of them openly, triumphing over them in it.” Here we have a picture of Jesus putting off from Himself the hosts of hell, breaking their dominion, and rising from the dead. Heb. 2:14, “Since then the children are sharers in flesh and blood, he also himself in like manner partook of the same; that through death he might bring to nothing him that had the power of death, that is, the devil.”

New Creation:
We are “In Christ” people. We are redeemed. We are free in Christ. Neither justice, nor Satan, has any claim on us! The sin nature that God covered in the Jew, is gone. We are a New Creation. 2 Cor. 5:17, “Wherefore if any man is in Christ, he is a new creature: the old things are passed away; behold, they are become new.” If we are in Christ, we are New Creations. The Holy Spirit has given birth to us. We are the “Born of God.” John 3:3-8, We are born “from above.” We are of God. 1 John 4:4, “You are of God, my little children.” Eph. 2:10, “For we are His workmanship, created in Christ Jesus.” We are His workmanship, a creation in Christ. We are God's own Creation. The sin, that the blood of animals covered, is put away. Rom. 6:6, “Knowing this, that our old man was crucified with him, that the body of sin might be done away, that so we should no longer be in bondage to sin.” The Old Man, the body of sin, is done away in the New Creation. The sin nature is gone. The new nature is in its place. So many of us have tried to get rid of this “old nature.” We did not know that it was done away in the New Creation. This New Creation is the life and nature of God imparted to our spirits. The thing called the “Old Man,” theologically the “Adam Nature,” was spiritual death that had possession of our spirits. When we were made alive, made New Creations, that nature was done away. Because we are tempted, and in our babyhood state, before our minds are renewed, we do unseemly things, some of us have been led to believe that we still have sin in us. There is only one place for sin to reside, and that is in our spirits. But our spirits have been recreated. The sin nature has been taken out of us. 1 John 3:14, “We know that we have passed out of death into life, because we love the brethren.” Satan's nature is gone. God's nature has come in. Eph. 4:23-24, “And that you be renewed in the spirit of your mind, and put on the new man, that after God hath been created in righteousness and holiness of truth.” A new man “created in righteousness and holiness of truth.” This New Creation is of God. It is God's own nature. So, we know we are His own

WE ARE THE RIGHTEOUSNESS OF GOD:
We are redeemed. Satan and justice have no claims against us. God Himself in Christ satisfied the claims of justice, and in Christ conquered Satan, delivering us from his authority. We are in Christ. Being in Christ, we are New Creations. Being New Creations, we have but one Lord - Jesus. Satan has no authority over us. We are no longer afraid of Satan, or of what he can do. We are not afraid of ourselves as this self is a New Creation. We are not afraid of God, as we have been reconciled to Him in the death of His Son. 2 Cor. 5:18, “But all these things are of God, who reconciled us to himself through Christ.” Being reconciled we have fellowship with the Father, and with His Son, Jesus Christ. Reconciliation is another word for fellowship. Rom. 3:24-26, “Being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus.” The word “justified” means “made righteous.” Then we have been declared righteous by His grace. Verse twenty-six, “That he might himself be righteous, and the righteousness of him that has faith in Jesus.” Heb. 9:26, “But now once at the end of the ages has he been manifested to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself.” He put sin away by the sacrifice of Himself. You note the word “Himself,” that comes out again and again, showing that our righteousness is a God-wrought thing. 2 Cor. 5:21, “Him who knew no sin he made to be sin on our behalf; that we might become the righteousness of God in him.” God made Him to be sin that we might become the righteousness of God in Him. By the New Birth, this is brought to pass. 1 Cor. 1:30, “But of him are you in Christ Jesus, who was made unto us wisdom from God, and righteousness and sanctification, and redemption.” God makes Jesus our righteousness. Heb. 10:38, “But my righteous one shall live by faith.” We are His righteous ones. It is imperative that we take our place and act our part. God has made us righteous. 
We must act as though we were righteous. God cannot bless unless we take our place. You notice God has become the righteousness of the man that has faith in Jesus. He not only declares us righteous, but now by His great grace He becomes our righteousness.

WE ARE SONS OF GOD:
We are redeemed. We are New Creations. We are the righteousness of God. All of this is wrought of God. He calls us, “My righteous ones who walk by faith.” Now we are to take our place as sons. What grace! Once - sons of Satan. Now - sons of God, by a New Birth based upon legal grounds. Rom. 8:14-16, “For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, these are sons of God.” This is the climax of God's revelation to Paul -- becoming sons of God. God bears witness that the thing is done. You are born into His family. For as many as received Him, to them He gives the right to become children of God. John 1:12-13, “But as many as received him, to them gave He the right to become children of God, even to them that believe on His name: who were born, not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God.” On the ground of what God did in Christ, everyone has a right to sonship privileges. 2 Cor. 6:17-18, “And I will receive you, and will be to you a Father, and you shall be to Me sons and daughters.” God will take His place. You take yours. 1 John 3:2, “Beloved, now are we children of God.” We are sons now, with son’s rights, son’s authority. Gal. 3:26, “For you are all sons of God through faith in Christ Jesus.” Now take your place as a child. Enjoy your rights. You are welcome in His presence. He loves you. He longs for your fellowship. If you are sons, God is now your Father. You are in His family. This is the objective toward which all the purposes of God have been working ever since the Fall of man. If you have never taken your place as a son, if you have never enjoyed the sweet fellowship that belongs to you as a child, you have been missing the richest feature in Christianity. 1 Cor. 1:9, “Faithful is he who has called us into fellowship with his Son Jesus Christ, our Lord.” This fellowship is with the Father. This only comes in its fullness and richness, when the mind is renewed through the Word by the Spirit. He will be a far-away God to you, until you learn to call Him Father and take your place as a child.

WE ARE CARED FOR IN CHRIST:
We have come into all these vast riches of grace, through believing on Jesus and confessing His Lordship over us. Psalm 23:1-3, “Jehovah is my shepherd; I shall not want. He makes me to lie down in green pastures; He leads me beside still waters. He restores my soul: He guides me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake.” Jesus is your Lord, you shall not want. He is your Care-taker, your own love Lord. Phil. 4:19, “And my God shall supply every need of yours according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.” My God shall supply all your needs. This means every need - body, soul, and spirit. Eph. 1:3, “Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ.” He has blessed you with every spiritual blessing in Christ. All is yours. All has been given you. Just thank Him for what you need. 1 Peter 5:7, “Casting all your anxiety upon him, because he cares for you.” John 14:23, “If a man loves me, he will keep my word: and my Father will love him, and we will come unto him, and make our abode with him.” Jesus and the Father will come and live with you, make your home theirs. Matt. 6:32-33, “For after all these things do the Gentiles seek; for your heavenly Father knows that you have need of all these things. But seek you first his kingdom, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added to you.” Your Heavenly Father knows all your needs and will give them to you. “Be not therefore anxious, saying, ‘What shall we eat?’ or, ‘What shall we drink?’ or, ‘How shall we be clothed?’” If you can learn to put Him first, to trust His Word absolutely, there will come into your heart a new sense of protection and care. Prov. 3:5-6, “Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and lean not upon your own understanding: In all your ways acknowledge him and he will direct your paths.” The way to have His care and protection is on this road of trust. No other way makes an appeal to Him. Your reasoning and arguments only lead to confusion. Rest quietly in His love. Trust Him utterly in everything, and you will know what it means when He says, “You will keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on you, because he trusts in you.” John 16:24, “Until now have you asked nothing in my name: ask, and you shall receive, that your joy may be made full.” Here you have the privilege of joining forces with Him, and carrying out His will on the earth. You can really be a child of God in your daily life. 


WHAT CHRIST IS TO ME NOW:
You have seen what He has done for you in Christ. You have seen what He has made you to be in Christ, - “Redeemed,” a “New Creation,” “The righteousness of God,” “The sons of God,” and the “Cared-For of God.” Now we go on to see what God has made Christ to be to us. Luke 2:11, “A Savior, who is Christ the Lord.” He is the only Savior. God alone can save. John 14:6, “Jesus said unto him, I am the way, and the truth, and the life: no one comes to the Father, but by me.” Heb. 9:15, “And for this cause he is the mediator of a new covenant.” He is the only Mediator. God's appointed One. Heb.7:25, “Wherefore also he is able to save to the uttermost them that draw near unto God through him, seeing he ever lives to make intercession for them.” He is our Intercessor at God's right hand. 1 Cor. 1:30, “But of him are you in Christ Jesus, who was made unto us wisdom from God, and righteousness and sanctification, and redemption,” 
God made Him to be our righteousness, so we can go into the Father's presence without fear. Our sanctification, Redemption and wisdom – all this God made Him to be for us. Psalm 27:1, “Jehovah is my light and my salvation; whom shall I fear? Jehovah is the strength of my life; of whom shall I be afraid?” He is our light and salvation. He is the Strength of our life. John 6:35, “Jesus said unto them, I am the bread of life: he that comes to me shall not hunger, and he that believes in me shall never thirst.” He is our bread and water of life. He is all we need. 1 Peter 2:24, “Who himself bore our sins in his body upon the tree, that we, having died unto sins, might live unto righteousness; by whose stripes you were healed.” He is our healer, and healing. Now trust Him for all things. He is everything to you now. He’s a Savior; He has saved you out of your sins. He has saved you from the dominion and power of Satan. He is your way to walk, to live, to absolutely trust. He is your Reality. And the Spirit Himself will lead you into the Reality of Jesus, where prayer will become a living thing, where fellowship will be rich and beautiful. His Life will swallow up your weaknesses. He will be the strength of your life. Not only this, but He is your great Intercessor, whoever lives at the Father's right hand to make intercession for you. Your prayers may fail, but His cannot. Not only is He all this, but He is your great Advocate, that ever sits before the Father on your behalf. He makes Christianity a Living Reality.

LIVING IN HIM:
It was a surprise to the writer to find that the expressions “in Christ,” “in whom,” “in Him,” occur more than 130 times in the New Testament. This is the heart of the Life in Him. Here is the secret of faith that conquers, faith that moves mountains. Here is the secret of the Spirit's guiding us into all Reality. The heart craves intimacy with the Lord Jesus and with the Father. Eph. 1:7, “In whom we have our redemption through his blood, the remission of our trespasses according to the riches of His grace.” It is not a beggarly Redemption. It is a God-like Redemption by the God who could say, “Let there be lights in the firmaments of heaven,” causing the whole starry heavens to leap into being in a single instant. That is Omnipotence. That is beyond human reason. That is where philosophy has never left a footprint. That is like our miraculous Redemption. It is according to the riches of His grace. Not only that, but it is through His blood. Eph. 1:8, “It has abounded toward us in all wisdom and prudence.” It is lavish. It is abundant, but it is mixed with wisdom. Our Redemption is a perfect thing. When you know it, enter into it, your heart grows accustomed to it, there will be ability in your life that you have never known. Col. 1:13-14, “Who delivered us out of the authority of darkness, and translated us into the kingdom of the Son of His love; in Whom we have our redemption, the remission of our sins.” You are delivered out of the authority of Satan. You are free. It is in Him we have our Redemption. You have been delivered out of Satan’s dominion. You have been translated into the kingdom of His love. You are free from the dominion of Satan. The hour will come when you will awaken to the fact that he cannot put disease upon you, that he cannot give you pain and anguish in your body. The hour will come when you will know that want and poverty are things of the past, as far as you are concerned. You will shout amid the turbulence and fear of other men, “The Lord is now my shepherd. I shall not want. He makes me to lie down in plenty, in fullness. I am satisfied with Him.” (Taken from Ps. 23:1) This Redemption is real, Satan is defeated. Disease is outlawed. Want is banished. We are free. Jn. 8:36, “If therefore the Son shall make you free, you shall be free in reality.” (Literal trans.) The word “indeed” there really means “reality.” Jn. 10:10, “I came that they may have life, and may have it abundantly.” What is Life? Life is the nature of God. You may have the Father’s nature abundantly. You are in Christ. You are in the very realm of Life. That Life has in it the Life that transcends reasoning. It is Eternal Life. Jn. 14:6, Jesus said, “I am the Way, the Reality, and the Life.” He was unveiling to the heart what He can be to us. He can be Life to us. He can be Reality to us. He can fulfill every desire with satisfaction. That is the kind of a risen Lord that we have. Gal. 5:1, “Stand fast, therefore, and be not entangled again in a yoke of bondage.” The gravest danger of the believer is that after he has been made free, he will lapse back into bondage. He leaves the realm of the spirit, and of faith and walks in the realm of sight and the Senses. As Sense Reason gains the supremacy he loses his joy in the Lord. We are New Creations in Christ Jesus. This is a thrilling truth. We are just finding out what this can mean to us. 2 Cor. 5:17, “Wherefore if any man is in Christ, he is a new creation.” This New Creation fact means to you, (whether you know it or not), all that it means to Jesus and the Father. Paul's Revelation is filled with New Creation truth. It is God's dream for you to enjoy the fullness of this New Creation’s privileges. “The old things are passed away.” Those old things of bondage, fear, doubt, want, sickness, weakness, and failure are gone. You say “that is not possible. These things do not belong to the New Creation.” The New Creation is just like the Master. He is the Head. You are the Body. He is the Vine. You are the branch. As He is, so are you. Jn. 15:1-7, “I am the true vine, and my Father is the husbandman…I am the vine, you are the branches.” 1 Jn. 4:7, “Beloved, let us love one another: for love is of God; and everyone that loves is begotten of God, and knows God.” Just as long as you deal in doubts and fears, as you sit in judgment on yourself, you will never arrive. You will never enjoy these things. But if you will act on the Word, take it for granted and act on it as you would act on a letter from some friend, you will arrive. Now act upon the Word of God which cannot be broken. When God says, “All things have become new,” start thinking of yourself as living in this new realm.

WE ARE RECONCILED:
You have been reconciled to God through Jesus Christ. You have perfect fellowship now. Oh, the wealth that belongs to you in this new relationship! Dare to act your part! Eph. 2:10, “For we are His workmanship, created in Christ Jesus.” If you are His workmanship - you are satisfactory to Him. He is pleased with you. We have preached condemnation and sin so long, that we do not know how to preach Righteousness and tell the people what they are in Christ. When someone does tell them, they feel it is false teaching. They feel that anything is false teaching that does not honor sin, and lift it into the place of Christ. You are God's new man. Eph. 2:15 declares He made one new man. “Having abolished in His flesh the enmity, even the law of commandments contained in ordinances; that He might create in Himself of the two one new man, so making peace;” Eph. 4:24, “And put on the new man, that after God has been created in righteousness and holiness of truth.” The New Creation knows but one Lord. Jesus is the Lord of the New Creation. Col. 2:6-7 gives us a graphic statement of fact. “As therefore you received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in Him, rooted and built up in Him, and established in your faith, even as you were taught, abounding in thanksgiving.” What a glorious truth! No longer are you a weakling. His strength is your strength. We are so strong that we are to abound in thanksgiving. When we stop abounding in thanksgiving we deteriorate spiritually. Ps. 27:1, “Jehovah is my light and my salvation; whom shall I fear? Jehovah is the strength of my life; of whom shall I be afraid?” Ps. 23:1, “The Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want.” You swing free from the old prison house of bondage and fear and want, of hunger and cold. You are out in the freedom of God. Heb. 7:25 is Jesus' present attitude toward you. “Wherefore also He is able to save to the uttermost them that draw near unto God through Him, seeing He ever lives to make intercession for them.” He ever lives to make intercession for you. He is seated at the Father's right hand. Say it over, “He ever lives for me.” Just as that wife lives for that man whom she loves, so in a greater measure the Lord Jesus lives for you. He has only one business. That is living for you. 

THE GIFT OF RIGHTEOUSNESS:
We are His Righteousness. Of all the wealth that is known to the human heart, there is nothing that equals this, that Jesus declares through the apostle Paul that we are His Righteousness. I cannot grasp it. We are His Righteousness. How precious we must be to Him. He once became our Righteousness. He once declared us Righteous by His resurrection from the dead. Now He goes beyond the declaration and makes that declaration a reality. 2 Cor. 5:21, “Him who knew no sin He made to be sin on our behalf; that we might become the righteousness of God in Him.” 1 Cor. 1:30, “But of Him are you in Christ Jesus, who was made unto us wisdom from God, and righteousness and sanctification, and redemption.” Gal. 2:20, “That life which I now live in the flesh I live in faith, the faith which is in the Son of God, who loved me, and gave Himself up for me.” He loved me. He gave Himself up for me. What love is revealed here! He not only redeemed me and sanctified me, but now before heaven He says, “I am that man’s Redemption. I am that man's sanctification.” Then I can hear His voice rise to notes of utter triumph when He shouts, “I am his Righteousness and his wisdom.” This is al1 His work. It is not of man's works lest he should say, “I had a share in that.” Your repenting, crying and weeping had nothing to do with your Righteousness or your Redemption. You stand complete in Him, in all the fullness of His great, matchless Life. Rom. 8:33-34 is the climax of the revelation of our Redemption. “Who shall lay anything to the charge of God's elect?” You are God's elect. Jesus and the Father have elected you and now He says, “who shall lay anything to the charge of My own son, My daughter?” There is only one person of any standing before the Supreme Court who could lay anything to your charge. That is Jesus - and He will not do it. “Who is He that condemns? Shall Christ that died, yea, rather, that was raised from the dead, who is at the right hand of God, who also makes intercession for us?” Can’t you see the wealth of your position? Can’t you see the riches of the glory of your inheritance in Christ? You are in Him. All that He planned in Jesus is a heart reality now. There is no condemnation. There is no judgment for you. There is no fear of death. Because death is simply swinging the portals open for you to march in triumph into the presence of your Father. 1 Jn. 4:18 grips the heart. “There is no fear in love: but perfect love casts out fear.” In Christ we have received Eternal Life, the nature of our Father. That nature is love. That love is perfect. Our human love is imperfect. This is Agape - the thing that makes life beautiful. You may not perfectly understand or perfectly enter into it, but it is His perfect love, and it is all yours now. 1 Cor. 12:12, “For as the body is one, and has many members, and all the members of the body, being many, are one body; so also is Christ.” We are so one with Him that we are called “The Christ.” The church is called “The Christ.” He is the Vine. You are the branch. Jn. 15: 1-8 (5th verse) “I am the vine, you are the branches; He that abides in me, and I in him, the same bears much fruit.” As the branch is to the vine, so are you to the heart of Jesus. You are utterly one with Him. All this time you have been thinking about your sin, about your weakness, and your failings. Hear Him whisper to your heart now, Rom. 8:1, “There is therefore now no condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus.” If you are Born Again, you are in Christ. You are a conqueror. You are free from condemnation. You are the Righteousness of God in Him. You are the fullness of God in Him. You are complete in Him. The wealth of His glory, the wealth of His riches, has never been fully expressed. You are Righteous. There is no sinconsciousness for you. There is no inferiority complex for you. You are now in Christ, the very Righteousness of God. You can use the Name of Jesus without fear. You can do as Peter did in Acts 3:5-8, “And he gave heed to them, expecting to receive something from them. But Peter said, “Silver and gold have I none; but what I have, that I give you. In the Name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, walk.” You can swing free. Jn.16:23-24, “If you shall ask anything of the Father, He will give it you in my name.” Jn. 15:7 is yours now. “If you abide in me, and my words abide in you, ask whatsoever you will, and it shall be done unto you.” You are in Him. He is in you. His Word abides in you. You are His Righteousness. You are His Life. You are all and all in Him. You can do His works now. Jn. 14:12-13, “Greater things than these shall you do - because I go unto the Father. And whatsoever you shall ask in my name, that will I do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son.” You take your place, play the part. Use the Name to heal the sick. His death was not in vain. His suffering was not in vain. You stand complete in His completeness. You are filled with His fullness. His grace is yours.


WHAT WE CONFESS:
Heb. 4:14-16 can become a reality in you. “Having then a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession.” The word here is not “profession” but “confession.” Christianity is called, “the great Confession.” Your confession is that you are in Christ. All we have said to you in these lessons is a reality to you. You hold fast to it. The adversary will try to make you deny your confession. He will try to make you confess another thing rather than this. He will try to make you confess weakness and failure and want. But you hold fast to your confession that: “My God does supply every need of mine.” Phil. 4:19. You stand by that confession. Phil. 4:13, “I can do all things in Him who strengthens me.” You make the declaration that He is the strength of your life. 1 Pet. 2:24, “Who Himself bore our sins in His body upon the tree, that we, having died unto sins, might live unto righteousness; by whose stripes you were healed.” You died unto sins with Christ on that cross; you arose to walk in Righteousness; and by His stripes you are healed. When Jesus arose from the dead, healing belonged to you. You hold fast to your confession in the face of every assault of the enemy. You rebuke it in the Name of Jesus. You walk in the way of Righteousness. That is the way of victory. That is the way where you cast out demons and disease in the name of Jesus. Every disease that has afflicted a Christian could have been healed if there had been anyone who had dared to walk in Righteousness toward that believer and who would have dared walk in the fullness of his privileges in Christ. The devil could have been driven out and healing could have been his. Heb. 4:15-16, “For we have not a high priest that cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities; but one that has been in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin. Let us therefore draw near with boldness unto the throne of grace.” You are invited to come now to the throne room and sit with the Master and with the Father. You are to come in with the Master and with the Father. You are to come boldly. Don't come creeping in. Don't come in confessing your sins, bewailing your weakness and failures. Put on the new garment. Dress fittingly to appear before the throne. You are the sons and daughters of God Almighty, without condemnation. You will find mercy and grace to help in time of need. If we realized what we were in Christ, and knew that we had the ability to be what God says we are, our lives would be transformed in a week. We do not know what Redemption and the New Creation have made us. We do not know what we are to the Father's heart and what He is to us. Most of us are theological Christians instead of Bible Christians. We have theological experiences and are ever attempting to square the Word with those experiences. We have been taught that there is no truth beyond our creed. We lock our people in a creed, making them prisoners of the theories of men born a hundred years ago. The creed Christian is not a Bible Christian. Each creed must have the Bible translated to fit it. We have discovered a Christ who is greater than the creeds, a Redemption that is greater than the creeds, a New Birth that bursts the bonds of creedal Christianity and sets the prisoners free. We are discovering a type of Christianity that is better than the creeds, better than anything to which the creeds have given birth. The creeds, beautiful though they are, are largely born of Sense Knowledge. 

WE ARE REDEEMED:
Rom. 3:24, “Through the Redemption that is in Christ Jesus: whom God set forth to be a propitiation, through faith, in his blood, to show His Righteousness.” Our Redemption, our Redeemer is Christ. No one can rob you of your Redemption. If you take Christ as your Savior, He becomes your Redemption. You become independent of man. Your Redemption was God's own work, and He Himself is satisfied with what He did in Christ. Eph. 2:10, “For we are His workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God afore prepared that we should walk in them.” Eph. 1:7, “In whom we have our Redemption through His blood, the remission of our trespasses.” If you have your Redemption, you are Redeemed. Your Redemption was through the blood of Jesus Christ. You have the remission of your trespasses. Notice first: you have your Redemption in Christ. It is through the blood of the Son of God. You have the remission of all that you ever did before you became a Christian. This Redemption is according to the riches of His grace. It is a perfect, a complete Redemption. It is not a beggarly Redemption, but a vast God-sized Redemption that glorified God and glorified Christ and honors every man who embraces it. Col.1:13-14, “Who delivered us out of the authority of darkness.” That is Satan's authority. If we are delivered out of his authority, he can no longer reign over us. Yet the great body of the church is living under the dominion of the adversary as though it had never been Born Again. What is the matter? The creed to which we have subscribed has no actual Redemption in it. It has robbed the church of its own Redemption by setting stakes of limitation. Col. 1:13, “He delivered us out of the authority of Satan, and He translated us into the kingdom of the Son of His love.” Put it in the first person. You are the one who has been delivered. You are the one who has been translated into God's kingdom and God's family. In Christ you have your Redemption, the remission of everything that you ever did. The New Birth settles the problem of your sin nature. It gives you the nature of God and takes out of you the nature of the adversary. All you ever did is wiped out. All you ever were has been destroyed. You are now an actual child of God, just as Jesus was in His earth walk. You have the same standing that Jesus had, because Jesus is your standing. He has become your Righteousness. God Himself becomes your standing. Rom. 3:26, “That He might Himself be Righteous, and the Righteousness of Him that hath faith in Jesus.” (Marg.) You have faith in Jesus as your Substitute. So God has become your Righteousness. When you believe this, you will come out of bondage and weakness and failure into the fullness of this new life in Christ. You are the sons of God. You are heirs of God and joint heirs with Jesus Christ. You are Redeemed. 1 Cor. 8:20, “For you were bought with a price.” That price was the blood of Christ. There is no joint ownership between Christ and the devil. You either belong to the devil or you belong to Christ. Christ purchased you with His own blood. 1 Pet. 1:18-19, “Knowing that you were redeemed, not with corruptible things, with silver or gold, from your vain manner of life handed down from your fathers; but with precious blood, as of a lamb without blemish and without spot, even the blood of Christ.” It is the blood of the Lamb without spot. You stand before the Father now a Redeemed one, without condemnation. The blood of Jesus Christ, God's Son redeemed you. Every claim of justice has been paid. Jesus met the demands of Justice and satisfied them. You are free. 

WE ARE FREE:
1 Cor. 7:23, “Do not become the bondservants of men.” That means do not become the bondservant of the theories of men, the creeds of men. Man here means the man who walks in the Senses. You crown Jesus as the Lord of your life. There is no other bondage but the bondage of love. Jn. 8:36, “If therefore the Son shall make you free, you shall be free indeed.” You are free from Satan's dominion. You are a New Creation, a child of God. You have been Redeemed from the hand of your enemy. You are to take this fact seriously. You are to order your life accordingly. Rom. 6:14, “Sin shall not have dominion over you.” Satan was defeated by your Master. That defeat stripped Him of His ability to take you captive without your cooperation. The two phases of Christ's ministry in Redemption are: Jesus paying the price of your Redemption and the other is the defeating your enemy and setting you free. Col. 2:15, “Having despoiled the principalities and the powers, he made a show of them openly triumphing over them in it.” He triumphed over the adversary. His triumph was your triumph. He defeated the enemy for you. That battle was your battle. He was not fighting for Himself. Heb. 2:14, “Since then the children are sharers in flesh and blood, He also Himself in like manner partook of the same; that through death He might bring to nought Him that had the power of death, that is, the devil.” He set you free. You are free. You are Redeemed by God Himself. 

A New Creation:
Next I want you to notice that you are a New Creation. This truth has never been given its place. All we have been taught was that God forgave us our sins and that by a second work of Grace sin was eradicated from us. But if we did wrong ignorantly or intelligently, we had to be Justified again. That Justification permitted us to be Justified with the devil's nature in us. Another view is that God was unable to take out Satan's nature when He gave us His nature.
So that when we were Born Again we had God's nature and the devil’s nature in us. We warred against the devil’s nature in us. They said we would be free when we died. Satan is the author of death. That would make Satan your savior. Far be the thought! All this teaching belongs to Sense Knowledge's interpretation of the Word. Spiritual things are spiritually understood. 1 Cor. 2:12, “That we might know the things that are freely given to us of God.” The first thing that is given to you after Redemption is a New Creation. 2 Cor. 5:17 must ever stand as the key to this wonderful truth. “Wherefore, if any man is in Christ, he is a new creation: the old things are passed away; behold all things are become new. And all these things are of God, who reconciled us to Himself through Christ, and gave unto us the ministry of reconciliation; to wit, that God was in Christ reconciling the world unto Himself.” You are a New Creation. The devil’s nature has been taken out of you. God's nature has taken its place. You are reconciled to the Father. You are brought into fellowship with the Father. Everything you were stopped being. All you were in Satan stopped being. The old things of weakness and failure are passed. This New Creation has no memory of a past creation. You are newly born. You are a new species. You are a New Creation created in Christ Jesus. The Jew was blood covered because his nature was antagonistic toward God. We are not blood covered. We are made New Creations. We are cleansed by the blood. We need not be covered. We can stand uncovered - free from sin consciousness in His presence just as Jesus did in His earth walk. The Holy Spirit has given birth to us. We are born of God. Jas. 1:18, “Of His own will He brought us forth by the Word of truth, that we should be a kind of first fruits of His creatures.” 1 Jn. 4:4, “You are of God my little children.” Eph. 2:10, “We are His workmanship created in Christ Jesus.” All this drives us to this conclusion: that this New Creation is something that God Himself has wrought out and that we are, now, just what He says we are – the very sons of God. Rom. 6:6 tells us that the man of sin is done away with in the New Creation. “Knowing this, that our old man was crucified with Him, that the body of sin might be done away, that so we should no longer be in bondage to sin.” The sin nature is gone. So many of us have tried to get rid of this old nature. We did not know that it was put away. The thing called the Adamic nature is spiritual death which had possession of our spirits. When we are made alive, made New Creations, that nature is done away. We are tempted, and in our babyhood state do foolish things. That is because our bodies have never been brought into subject to our spirits. Sin may dwell in your physical body, but it is not sin until you have consented to an act. There is nothing wrong in your body. Sin may lurk in your body like a demon. If there is a demon in your flesh that means that your body is filled with pain and inflammation. When that demon is cast out, your body becomes clean and healed. Sin abides in your spirit and in your mind. It does not abide in your body. When it says “sin in the flesh” it means sin in the Senses. It is when your Senses have gained the dominion over your body. Rom. 12:1-2; He desires that these bodies shall be dedicated to Him after we are Born Again. It is an unseemly thing for your body to rule your mind and your spirit. You know that if you have a sore foot, that foot rules all the rest of the body. That disease has gained the mastery so that your spirit and your mind become absolute slaves to the pain in that foot. The same thing is true if you have an unclean appetite, a habit. That habit gains the mastery over your whole body, if you do not hold it in subjection. The thing you say to that foot, “By His stripes you are healed. In the Name of Jesus become well.” (Taken from Isa. 53) You say to the habit that has gained the mastery over your body and mind, “You have no right to hold dominion over me any longer. In the Name of Jesus Christ, depart.” You will be free. There is only one place for sin to actually reside, and that is in our spirits. Our spirits have been recreated. The sin nature has been taken out. 1 Jn. 3:14, “We know that we have passed out of death into life, because we love the brethren.” Satan's nature is gone. God's nature is in us. This New Creation is of God. We know that we are His own. Nothing will cripple one so quickly as to deny this truth. Nothing will establish you and build your faith as quickly as to confess it. Confess it in your heart first. Confess it out loud in your room. Say it over and over again: “I am a child of God. I have God's nature. I am the Righteousness of God in Christ.” Say it until the words become familiar with your spirit. Say it until your spirit and your words agree, until your whole being swings into harmony and into line with the Word of God. That miraculous passage in Heb. 5:13 says, “For everyone that partakes of milk is without experience of the word of Righteousness; for he is a babe.” They have never sounded the depths of Righteousness. They do not know what it means to be the Righteousness of God in Christ. They do not know what it means to have God Justify them and to have a standing with the Father just like Jesus' standing. They do not seem to grasp the significance of the reality of the New Creation. That New Creation is a part of God. It has partaken of God's nature. It has been made out of Righteousness and holiness of truth. The New Creation is not a man-made thing. It is not a mental thing. It is a thing of God. Just as the angel said, Lk. 1:35, “That holy thing that shall be born shall be the Son of God,” the Holy Spirit has given birth to you and you are the holy ones of God. You are that separated thing that belongs absolutely to the Father. You are now His very child. You can say, “My Father.” He whispers, “My child.” Rom. 8:15, “But you received not the spirit of bondage again unto fear; but you received the Spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, ‘Abba, Father.’” It is your continual confession of your relationship to Him and His to you that will build faith into you. Rom. 8:1, “There is therefore now no condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus.” God is your Father, your protector, your caretaker, your Lord. You are in His family. Take your place. Play the part of a son.

FAITH AND REASON:
Few of us realize that there are two kinds of knowledge in the world. They have always been hostile to each other. There is the Knowledge that comes from our fives sense: seeing, tasting, hearing, smelling, and feeling. This is the source of all knowledge that comes to natural man. The other kind of knowledge is a Revelation Knowledge. It comes from the Word. Since educators have thrown the Word of God out of our schools, colleges and universities, there is but one kind of knowledge taught in these institutions. That is the knowledge from the five senses. This is suggestive, almost startling when one thinks of it. The mind of natural man has no way of knowing except through these avenues. It is what we have heard, what we have tasted, what we have seen or what we have smelled. Astronomy comes through the eye. Down through the whole list of scientific knowledge the same holds true. The man who only accepts Sense Knowledge will never know God, never understand anything connected with real Christianity because it belongs to a realm above his natural reason. Christianity is a Revelation and a Miracle. The Bible is a Miracle Book. The first chapter of Genesis gives us the Miracle of Creation. My friend in the Sense Realm repudiates it and says, “It is not reasonable.” I admit he is right. It is not reasonable. It is above Reason. One of the most unhappy things that theologians have ever attempted is to square the Bible with the so-called science or reasonings from the senses. It would have been better for them if they had tried to make science harmonize with revelation. The understanding of revelation is purely by Faith. “By faith we understand that the worlds have been framed by the Word of God.” You see, “we understand” by faith. By faith, God said, “Let there be” and Creation came into being. Jesus was a representative of the unseen Faith-God. He walked by faith. The mighty miracles performed by Jesus were all faith miracles. The book of Acts as well as the four Gospels is a record of miracles. The man who reads the New Testament carefully will discover that there is no place in it for human reason. It is a Miracle Book.

FELLOWSHIP AND FAITH:
Redemption had one objective, to restore man to unlimited fellowship with the Father. You know, in human relationships, the moment that our fellowship is broken with a loved one, we lose our liberty and freedom with them. There comes a sense of constraint. The moment that Fellowship is broken with the Father, there is a sense of constraint. We cannot pray as we ought. Faith is measured by our fellowship. If we have a low type of fellowship that you will find in many homes faith will be of a low type. If your fellowship in the home is of a high order, your faith will be at flood tide. The same thing is true of your Heavenly Father. If you are in perfect fellowship, loving, rejoicing in Him, then faith will move mountains. But if you are under condemnation, if the sense of guilt, of sin dominates your life, then your faith goes down to zero. The sense of unworthiness comes from poor fellowship. If your prayer life sags and you have no joy in it, it is because your fellowship is broken. Then go to Him and ask Him what the trouble is. 1 John 1:9 will usually clear the thing. “If we confess our sins, He is faithful and righteous to forgive us our sins, and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness.” When you have confessed your sins, remember they are forgiven, and when the Father forgives, He forgets. There is no memory of it. You dishonor Him when you remember them after they are once forgiven. You cannot ask His forgiveness without getting it. You should then go on and live as though you have never sinned. That is the only way you honor the Blood that cleanses and the Word that gives you faith. Rich Fellowship is rich Faith. Above every other thing that you do, keep your Fellowship rich and sweet. 

FAITH’S DOMINION: Faith is dominant. Faith must rule. Reason must take its place as a helper. The moment that reason thinks that it can assume leadership, the spiritual life of the believer begins to weaken. Feelings must be conquered. As long as feelings have any place in the council, faith is weakened. Feelings must be utterly absolutely subdued, ignored. Fear must be eliminated. Faith and fear cannot associate together. Either fear or faith rules. Faith and fear have never been companions. Faith and fear have never been linked up. Faith is dominant; faith is victorious; faith rules. Fear and failure are ever linked together. Reason always wants to see, to understand. Faith has eyes and it sees the thing done before it is begun. It sees the dam built before a bucket of cement has been put in. It sees the desert irrigated and blooming as a rose before the blueprints are even drawn. Faith sees with eyes that are accustomed to view the finished product, while reason’s eyes see obstruction and difficulties and handicaps and human weakness and human failings and stands powerless in the presence of human impotence. Faith brushes them aside and stands fullorbed and sees them finished and completed. Faith’s highest joy is realizing a thing before it is built, entering the house and lying down on the couches of comfort before the house is even placed upon the parchment. Faith must rule.

HOW FAITH TALKS Faith talks in the language of God. Doubt talks in the language of man. When I dare to say that I am what He says I am, then I am what He says I am. What the Word says I am, I am, because He knows what He did in Christ to make me what He says I am. The Word says that I am complete in Him. Well, God is the author of the Word. He is the author of my redemption, so if He says I am complete in Him, then I must be complete in Him. It is barely possible that I do not understand His method of measurement. It is barely possible that I do not understand His standards of perfection. But I rest in what He says and I am satisfied with what He says. What He says is what He sees in us by grace. And what He sees is what we really are. It is not what we believe or what the church has taught us, but, when He says, “we are the fullness of Him that fills all things,” we are. When He says that, “He has blessed us with ever spiritual blessing in the heavenlies,” then we are blessed. Whether we have enjoyed it or not, that is not the issue. He has blessed us. When He declares that we are seated together with Him in the heavenlies, we are. Now you go about your work today, and every idle moment that you have, repeat some of these great facts over and over again. After a while, they will become a part of you, as the multiplication table is a part of you. Just so will this Divine - consciousness or Jesus-consciousness become a part of you. You cannot think God’s thoughts after Him without God following His thoughts into your life and changing your thoughts into reality. You think weakness and you are weak. You think strength and you are strong. You think about God indwelling you and God will rise up and fill your body, His temple, with His Glory. Just as He overshadowed Solomon’s temple with the cloud of His Glory, so will He overshadow you. Just as He filled that temple with His Glory so that the priests could not stand to minister because of the wonder of His presence, so He will fill you today so that the world’s thoughts will be unable to minister in you because of the ineffable Glory of His presence. Let faith speak through your lips today. Don’t talk doubts anymore. Just talk faith. Let the world hear your confession. Every time you confess your sonship rights and your sonship place, you defeat the adversary. Sickness has no dominion over you. Disease has no dominion over you. Want and hunger and need have no dominion over you. You are now in the family of plenty. You are in the family where you lie down in green pastures and you are led by streams of sweet water. Your soul is restored from calamity and fear and doubt, and you fellowship and commune with Him in quietness. You are walking now in the paths of Righteousness, taking advantage of your Righteousness. You are doing the works of a Righteous man. You are praying the prayers of a Righteous man. Jas. 5:16, “The supplication of a righteous man avails much in its working.” You are praying for the sick. You are casting out demons. Mk. 16:17-18. You are living a life of victory because you are the Righteousness of God in Christ. This is what we are in Christ.
