DNFC KINGDOM AI KNOWLEDGE LIBRARY


LIBRARY PURPOSE:

This library contains the official teachings, books, sermons, and written materials of Discipleship Nation Family Church (DNFC).

The materials in this library are the primary source for DNFC Kingdom AI responses.


SOURCE IDENTIFICATION RULE:

When answering questions:

1. Identify the specific book or teaching where the information comes from.

2. Do not mix teachings from different books unless the user asks for comparison.

3. Preserve the original meaning, terminology, and revelation contained in each source.

4. Use Scripture references that are included within the source material.


==================================================


BOOK: THE ETERNAL LIFE

AUTHOR: SHEMMY GAVIYAO

CATEGORY:

Christology | Eternal Life | God-Man Union | Identity In Christ | The Militant Confession 


SOURCE MATERIAL:

DNFC KINGDOM AI KNOWLEDGE LIBRARY

SOURCE AUTHORITY:

This library contains official DNFC teachings, books, sermons, and written materials.

IMPORTANT RULE:

When answering questions, use this library as the primary source.

Identify the book or teaching source when possible.

Do not combine different books unless the user asks for comparison.

==================================================

BOOK: THE ETERNAL LIFE

SOURCE MATERIAL:
The Eternal Life

God-Man Union



The Lord Jesus Christ came into this earth to demonstrate and give the LIFE, this life is beyond the ordinary human life because it is God’s life. 

The Lord lived on earth as both God and man, meaning He was on earth hundred percent God and hundred percent human. 

The Bible says, 1Tim 3:16: "And without controversy great is the mystery of godliness: God was manifest in the flesh…" The mystery of godliness lies in the revelation or revealing of God in the flesh. This verse speaks of the Lord Jesus when He came in the flesh that was the manifestation of God in the flesh. 

The Bible says in the book of John 1:1: “In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.” This last sentence says, “and the Word was God.” 

Now when you go to verse 14 of the same chapter, it says and the Word was made flesh and dwelt among us. This is what Apostle Paul named as the mystery of godliness. It’s the God-man union. God coming in the flesh. 

When He came on earth as both God and man, He had come to unite man with God by giving man the God-Life. 

Looking at the life of the Lord Jesus on earth, He commanded sicknesses out of people’s bodies, He casted out demons, He commanded the winds and storms. He raised the dead, commanded the nature. 

At one point after speaking to the winds, the Bible says, He disciples asked themselves saying, who is this man who can even speak to the wind and it obeys His order.

 Listen, Jesus had the DNA of God in Himself and walked in the earth as was defined in His spirit. He lived in the world beyond the ordinary because He had in Himself the life of God. At one point He said, John 5:26: “For as the Father has life in himself; so has he given to the Son to have life in himself;” 

I want you to pay attention here, God does not have life in Himself but God is life Himself, this is exactly what this verse is saying. The second part that says, “so has He given to the Son to have life in Himself” means, God is the very life in the Son.

Right from the beginning God wanted to be the life in man, this is the only way by which a man can become an expression of God in this earth. The Bible speaking of the Lord Jesus says, He is the visible image of the invisible God. Col 1::15.

Jesus on earth was a God-man, He carried the DNA of God in Himself, no wonder they said, what manner of a man is this, they noticed that He was a different kind of man, little did they know that He was a God-man. He told them that He that has seen me has seen my Father. That’s the God-man. 

The appearing of the Lord Jesus Christ on earth was a divine invitation to bring man to this God-Life. The Bible said, John 10:10:… I am come that they might have life..." He came to bring man in God’s class, God’s realm. The preaching of the gospel is the divine invitation from God towards humanity into the God-life, into the God experiences. 

Through this God-life you are recreated in Christ to bear the image and the likeness of God. In Christ we are made new species, God’s breed and God-kind of man. We are the God-man in Christ called to live a life that when people looks at us they’ll say, what manner of people are these. 

This life that the Lord came to give brings man into deeper union with the Godhead, man becomes a replica of God, an expression and revelation of the Godhead on earth. 

Many of God’s children doesn’t give themselves to understanding the kind of life the Lord Jesus came to give, that’s why they live natural lives. The Bible says, Prov 4:7: “…with all your getting get understanding.”

This means, over everything that given to you or you get, you must carry a certain depth of understanding of that thing. In this book, I want us to explore and understand the God-Life that makes us God-man. The coming together of God and man. 



The Glory Of God



This life we are talking about is the glory of God, the very essence and nature of God. I want us to look at something deep that the Lord said in  John 17:21 I pray for them all to be joined together as one even as you and I, Father, are joined together as one. I pray for them to become one with us so that the world will recognize that you sent me.

 John 17:22 For the very glory you have given to me I have given them so that they will be joined together as one and experience the same unity that we enjoy.

I want you to pay a close attention to what the Lord is saying, verse 21 He prayed so that we may be one with Him (Godhead) then verse 22 begins with the word “For” which simply means “because”. 

Other versions begins verse 22 with the word “And”, meaning verse 22 cannot be interpreted in isolation. So He meant to say, now these people can be one with us because the glory that you gave me, I have also given to them. 

What is this glory? Let’s come back to John 5:26: "For as the Father has life in himself; so has he given to the Son to have life in himself;" The glory that the Lord Jesus was given is the very Life of God which in John 10:10 said I have come to give. This is the life that brings us into oneness with God. 

This life is the very essence of God this is why it is the glory of God. The Bible says in 1Cor 6:17: “But he that is joined to the Lord is one spirit.” How did we come to a place where we are joined to the Lord? It is obviously by receiving this Life in Christ, and if we are now joined to the Lord, we have become the God-man on earth. Christ is a place that unifies man and God. 

The Lord speaking said, John 20:21: “Then said Jesus to them again, Peace be to you: as my Father has sent me, even so send I you.” What the Lord meant by “as the Father has sent me so sent I you.” is that I am also sending you in the similitude by which the Father sent me here. 

How did the Father sent Jesus on earth? The Bible says, 1Tim 3:16: "And without controversy great is the mystery of godliness: God was manifest in the flesh… Since He was the manifestation of God in the flesh, He brought us into the same glory or life and now sends us as the expressions or the manifestation of God in the flesh so much so that when the world or we contact the world, they are touching God or being touched by God.  This life is not a theological thing you just learn and it ends there in the classroom, but it is the life that brings man to a place of glorious experiences in the world of man. Through Christ we have been made superior beings on earth, we are in the God-class. 

We should function like God here on earth because it is given to us to function like God, He gave us His life so that we may live as God on earth. The Lord in one portion of scripture said, John 5:17: “But Jesus answered them, My Father works till now, and I work.”

In this scripture the Lord is asserting His divine sonship and equality with God. He’s saying, I came to work the works of God the Father, I am an exact replica of the Father therefore it is given to me to function exactly like the Father. 

He was the epitome of God on earth, as we believers are the epitome of Christ in this earth. This is the glory of God in human vessel, the life of God. 



Eternal Life



Eternal life is God’s boundless gift towards humanity. Not only is eternal life God’s life in human vessels but the very eternal life is God being the life of man. Eternal life is God gifting Himself to man as their life. 

The Lord in one of the scriptures said, John 14:6: “Jesus said to him, I am the way, the truth, AND THE LIFE: no man comes to the Father, but by me.” He is the very life in us. So eternal life is God gifting humans as their life. 

Many time we say eternal life is God’s life which is true, but while we look at the revelation of Christ, we can understand that not only is eternal life God’s life in us but it is God being man’s life. The Bible says in the book of Col 3:4: “When Christ, who is our life…” Christ is our life. In the book of John 11:25,He said, I am the resurrection and the LIFE. He is the very life in us, He is the very life that He came to give to us. 

The Bible says, 1Jn 5:11: “And this is the record, that God has given to us eternal life, AND THIS LIFE IS IN HIS SON.” Pay attention here, this life is in His Son, I want us to see this life in Christ. 

The Bible says, Col 2:9: "For in him(Christ) dwells all the fullness of the Godhead bodily." The life in Christ is the fullness of the Godhead meaning the totality of God that resides in Christ. 

Another scripture says,  John 10:10 …I have come that they may have life, and have it to the full. Having life to the full is the fullness of God residing and finding expression through a human vessel. 

Life is the Triune God. But to us, life is not the Triune God in heaven, but the Triune God flowing out. This flowing out of the Triune God means that His content, which is Himself, first flowed out through Christ, then it flowed out as the Spirit to be received by us as life. 

Thus when we touch God in Christ as the Spirit, we touch life, for life is God in Christ as the Spirit. The Father is the source of life. The Son is the course of life. The Spirit is the flow of life. 

Life is the Father in the Son as the Spirit flowing into us to be our life and life supply. This is how we are joined to Him, we share the same life. 

Life is this processed Triune God flowing into us with all His divine riches, all that He has accomplished, passed through, obtained, and attained, to deal with all the negative things in us and to fill us up with Himself.

That which filled Christ, which is the Godhead fills us now and is now being expressed through us. This life is the light of men. The Bible says, John 1:4: "In him(Jesus Christ) was life; and the life was the light of men." 

That same life which is God is also men’s light, meaning that when a men receives this life, he must learn to live by the revelation and wisdom of that life. God is the revelation of man, and until men contact and see God, they continue in ignorance and confusion because God is the life-light of men. 

So eternal life is the Godhead filling a men, it is God becoming men’s life and light. Eternal life is the highest revelation of God towards men. In relation to Himself, God does not need to say that He is life. 

It is only in relation to man that He says He is life. God being life does not refer to His existence but to Him having a relationship with man, Him becoming man’s life. God’s relationship with men is a relationship of life, God wants to be men’s life. God wants to be mingled with men to become men’s life that’s why He came to men as life [John 1:4], because life is an indispensable element within men. To man, God should be his life. God wants to work Himself in a definite and thorough way into men, He wants to enter into men and be assimilated by men to become men’s inward element.

Strictly speaking, when we receive life, we receive not the life of God, but God as life. The greatness of this life surpasses human comprehension and wisdom, it’s a life beyond and above the ordinary, beyond what a human tongue can utter. 

What is life? Life is God Himself, What does it mean to have life? To have life is to have God Himself. What does it mean to live out life? To live out life is to live out God Himself. 

For instance, God is love. God is light. God is holy. God is righteous. When we have God as our life, we may live out God and express Him as love, light, holiness and righteousness. 

When we have God as our life we would not hate our enemies, rather we would love them [Matt. 5:44]. We would not walk in darkness and do the hidden things of shame [2 Cor. 4:2], rather we would walk in the light as He is in the light [1 John 1:7].

We would not be worldly, but rather would be holy, separated from the world and full of God’s holy nature [2 Pet. 1:4, 1 Thes. 5:23]. We would not be unrighteous, but rather we would become the righteousness of God [2 Cor. 5:21]. 

This is a very deep mystery of godliness. God can be life in us to live out all that God is. Originally God being men’s life tells us that we were created to be God-expressions. This was the idea of creating a men in His image and after His likeness.  Men is the summation of God on earth.

Here is another thing I want us to see, eternal is the life that enables us to live outside time and space and energy. 

Eternal means without beginning and the end, that which has been and will always be. Pay attention here, God is in all His dimensions yet He is also outside His dimensions. 

The highest dimension of God is now found in men through Christ Jesus. God is now man’s life, capacity and ability. Eternal life is a life that exist both in time and space and outside time, space as well. This is what I mean when I say that God is in all His dimensions yet outside them.

Time, space and energy are all dimensions of God, they were created by God. Eternal life is in your spirit now, but man is not made up of spirit only which has the eternal life, but he has a soul, and body as well. 

The areas of our souls and bodies which are will, emotions, intellect were created to experience the fullness of the dimensions of time, space and energy. 

By God’s design, all these were not created to be dominated and limited by these dimensions but rather through eternal life learn to dominate and manipulate them. 

I want you to see this verse. John 3:13: “And no man has ascended up to heaven, but he that came down from heaven, EVEN THE SON OF  MAN WHICH IS IN HEAVEN.” 

Meanwhile the Lord was on earth but said the Son of man which is in heaven. How possibly could He be on earth and still point out the He is in heaven? He existed outside time, space and energy at the same time He was found in space, time and energy. 

The point is, He wasn’t limited to these elements. For to be ruled, dominated and limited by these is living in bondage. Apostle Paul said, Gal 4:3: “Even so we, when we were children, were in bondage under the elements of the world:” 

Elements of the world there points to fundamental principles and forces that governs human existence and their relationship with the world. 

These elements, time, space and energy has always been the dimensions responsible of shaping human experiences and understanding of reality, most especially because of the fall of man. 

This is why John 1:4, when eternal life came, it is said to be the light of men. God wants to shape our experiences and understanding of reality above time, space and energy through the revelation of eternal life. 

The Bible says, Eph 2:5-6: “Even when we were dead in sins, has quickened us together with Christ, (by grace you are saved; ) And has raised us up together, and made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus:”

We exist with and in Christ in every spiritual dimension and realm. The mystery is hidden within the eternal life, it causes us to exist in and outside every dimension. 

When the Lord Jesus Christ walked in this earth, He functioned by this life to a point that He could manifest Himself into different places without leaving His location. 

For example, the Lord ministered to that woman’s child whom He replied saying, it is not good to give children’s bread to dogs. Matt 15:25-28. What the Lord simply did was to manifest Himself to where the child was and touched the child for healing yet without leaving where He was at that moment. 

There is an angelic dimension where angels moves at the speed of our words and perform what has been said but I’m not talking about the angelic dimension but a dimension where we can manifest ourselves through eternal life(life outside time and space) in different places. 

Like I said that, time, space and energy are not supposed to dominate and limit us but that we dominate and manipulate them. Imagine the Lord walking on top of the water, a dimension outside energy, it’s humanly impossible to do so. He manipulated physical energy. 

 Through that gift of eternal life, we are given the privilege to exist in God and with God as one (1Cor 6:17) and are given a right to tap into God’s unending glory, power, might, grace, riches, wisdom etc. If believers can be awakened to this reality, the miraculous will easily be the order of their experiences. We are born for more. 

It’s saddening because many believers are still ruled by circumstances and the elements of the world. They walk in ignorance of what has been given to them in and by Christ. God is our inheritance, eternal life is our inheritance. 

Apostle Paul praying for the Ephesus Church said,  Amplified Eph 1:19-20 And [so that you can know and understand] what is the immeasurable and unlimited and surpassing greatness of His power in and for us who believe, as demonstrated in the working of His mighty strength, Which He exerted in Christ when He raised Him from the dead and seated Him at His [own] right hand in the heavenly [places]. The power in us and through us is immeasurable and unlimited, this means when God looks at a believer in Christ, He sees no limitations. The mystery is hidden in the eternal life. The power of eternal life is bottomless, has no beginning and end, it is immeasurable. 

We haven’t come into the realization and appreciation of what we have received in Christ from God. God said, my people are destroyed because of the lack of knowledge. It is the revelation of Christ that awakens us from ignorance. 

It’s high time we begin to be awakened, right before the coming of the Lord Jesus, the Church is rising in it’s perfect strength to demonstrate the reality of God in the world of man. 

Eternal life is the union of God and men so much so that we become one with God. God gifted us with Himself to be life in us, so that we live as gods on earth. 

This eternal life must affect  everything and everything must be submitted under the order of that life. If the power working in us is said to be immeasurable and surpassing greatness of power, it simply means there’s no scale that can measure our greatness in this life because that power flows from eternal life.

This is why in the world, they found no book that could contain all the works of the Lord Jesus Christ which He did. He functioned by the all surpassing greatness of power. 

Eternal life is so powerful or the most powerful force on earth. By it the Lord stood right before the grave of an already dead smelling man (Lazarus) and called him back to life. Like I said, eternal life gives us advantage over time, space and energy. 

The Lord through eternal life had advantage over the four days on which Lazarus had been buried. Believers ought to be taught how to channel eternal life into things around them and circumstances. There’s an immeasurable, the all surprising greatness of God’s power in this eternal life. 

God is the very power, the very eternal life. Imagine in the world where God is your power. Just imagine what you can do when the almighty God is your life and power, when He is your glory. 

If you knew who you are and what you’ve received in Christ, you’ll never again put yourselves in the line of competition. God has no rival, so is you. Those that compete carries in themselves a victim mentality, they are slaves of men and devils. 

You have eternal life in you, God is now your life, live by that revelation of God being your life. Being placed in the realm of Christ’s life means we are brought out of the limitations into the all surpassing greatness of His power, wisdom, grace, glory and more that you can mention. 

The Bible says 1Jn 3:14: “We know that we have passed from death to life...” Death is the end of a thing, the limitation of breath. We have passed from that realm into God’s boundless dimension of life, glory and power. 

According to God’s design of a believer, He sees no limitation at all because the life we received is a life above limitation. When God looks at a believer through the lenses of eternal life, He sees no limitations because they don’t exist in that realm. We simply need to be taught how to channel this life and function by it. 

Eternal life is the nature of God, we being the branches of the vine [John 15:1]. We now share the same life with God, we are now united or joined as one with the Lord [1Cor 6:17]. God is now our identity, our place of reference. The power in Him is the same power in us, the all surpassing power. 

We now bear the image of the man from heaven being made partakers of the divine nature [1Peter 1:4]. We have been brought into partnership with God, we participate in and with the Godhead, that’s the meaning of being partakers of the divine nature. 

We are not mere humans on earth, but we are divine because of eternal life and the Holy Spirit in us. Eternal life is the overcoming life, the Bible says 1Jn 5:4: “For whatever is born of God overcomes the world… Whatever that is birthed and has this life of God carries the identity of victory. 

Victory is not something that happens after a fight, but something imprinted on our spirits by the reason of the new birth. We are born overcomers, we are born victors in this world. No devil, no circumstance can stand against this God-life. Eternal life is God’s authority, it is God’s power, it’s His nature, who He is. Who God is, is our identity. 

Never at any time must you think that you are ordinary in this life, you now have God as your life. You’ve been brought into God’s class and realm. 

More amazingly, through eternal life, we are always in constant touch and fellowship with God, we no longer appear in God’s presence but are always in the presence. 

Eternal life is a seal and testimony of redemption, this life gives us permanent victory over satan. Remember that for this to be given, the devil and sin needed to be defeated. 

Those that received this life stands now and for all eternity in victory over the devil, sin and the world. Through eternal life, we not only share the same life but share the same throne with Christ. 

The Bible calls our attention that we are made to seat together in Christ. Eph 2:6: “And has raised us up together, and made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus:” 

Christ is now the seat of every believer. He is now our authority, the throne on which we seat and issue commands. All things in this life have been subjected under the authority of the Christ and we now occupy that authority by the reason of our union with Him. 

The Light Of This Life



Human life failed, human life is that life that was dominated by satan. The Bible says, 1Cor 15:22: “For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive.”

Notice, for as in Adam all die not died, this is a present continuous tense. Adam is a real of death, Adam is a grave, a place dominated by death and devils. Limitations exists in Adam but the Bible says again, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. 

Christ is a place of life, it’s a place that knows no death. Death there is talking about the works of devils, remember John 10:10, he came to steal, kill and destroy and that possibility exist in Adam not in Christ. Christ is a place of life, a place that holds authority over death. 

The Bible says, 1Jn 3:14: "We know that we have passed from death to life… Remember in Adam all die, meaning we have crossed over the place of death, everything that defines Adam as a result of the fall can no longer hold on us. 

Death is now behind us, we passed, we crossed over death, now Christ in us the hope of glory, our dream of glory, our vision of glory, our experience of glory, our life of glory. 

We must not allow anything to bring us back into bondage. Here is the mystery that I want us to see about eternal life, the life we’ve received, the life which is God Himself in us. 

Remember we defined eternal life according to scriptures as God being life in us, Christ being life in us. The Bible says, Col 3:4: “When Christ, who is our life…

This verse tells us clearly that Christ is our life, another scripture says, 1Cor 1:24: "But to them which are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ [is] the power of God, and the wisdom of God."

The same Christ who is our life is the power of God and wisdom of God to us. Let me begin by explaining Him as wisdom, remember [John 1:4] in Him was life and the life was the light of men. 

Like I said that God does not have life in Himself but God is life. So to read this verse according to what I am saying, it reads He was the life and that very life is the light of men.

It means, Christ is the revelation of God that defines men, He is the wisdom of God that defines men. He is God’s ultimate plan for men. What it means for Christ to be men’s life is that that life He is, is His plan for humanity. 

No wonder He came that they may have life to it’s fullness [John 10:10]. So since that life which is Christ is the light of men, we ought to live now as defined in that life. 

Christ is the revelation of men, the world hasn’t known who a men is until they touch Christ(Zoe, the God life). Any attempt to define man outside Christ will be a description from a place of deception. 

Christ is the life-light that liberates man from the forces darkness. Eternal life is the life that defines men in God even in the world. 

The only reason why according to the book of Daniel 11:32, knowing God results in men’s greatness and doing mighty deeds is because the revelation of God names us, the more we know Him is the more we know ourselves. 

There is a way God defines Himself in and towards man that brings liberty, greatness and strength in and towards humanity. Now the Bible has also described Christ as the power of God in us. Christ is the power of God in us that enables us to live out God’s purposes on earth. 

His purposes are revealed by His wisdom (Christ). Not only are the purposes of God are revealed by Christ but the very Christ is the expression and the revelation of God’s purposes towards humanity. 

So as the purposes of God are revealed, Christ becomes God’s power in us that strengthens us to live out those revealed purposes. 

Many believers are caged in human opinions, they live as prisoners of man being caged in those people’s opinions, they don’t know that there is liberty in the life of God because that God-life is the light, truth, and revelation of men. 

The truth about you and me is defined in Christ who is our life (Col 3:4) and light (John 1:4). Christ being our life and light is because God wants us to live as defined in that life not according to human life. 

Remember, we passed from death ruled life which is Adam when we accepted Christ, and Christ is the eternal life, the undying life high above corruption. The Bible calls it incorruptible life. It’s high time as believers we be awakened to this life and banish everything that is not consistent with the God-life in us. At salvation, we were born anew to begin a new life in Christ. The inner man bears the new nature, carrying the testimony of the life of Christ. 

By this understanding, we submit our flesh to the realities of the inner man, aligning our lives with the will and finished work of the Lord. This is the life of God, everything must be under the government of that life.

By the finished work on the cross, Christ secured your salvation from every form of corruption and death. You are seated in Christ far above every power and principality. By faith, stand firm, hold and defend your position in Christ. 

Refuse to accept anything that contradicts your permanent victory won in Christ. There’s no place in this God-life where you are defined according to your physical family, and the devils in the world. We have been called into the God-class type of life. 

Generational curses holds no place in this life. Now we must be awakened to the realities of this life. Our spirits are now one with God, we must subject our souls and bodies to the same. 

Both our spirits, souls and bodies must be in the same page. The Bible says, Am 3:3: “Can two walk together, except they be agreed?” Many times we have looked at this verse and interpreted it to mean we must agree as people which is true. 

But here, if your spirit and your soul is not agreeing, you’re going to have unfruitful walk of faith, the experiences of glory will be far away from you. The real work must be in our souls. The Bible says, Jam 1:21: “Why lay apart all filthiness and superfluity of naughtiness, and receive with meekness the engrafted word, which is able to save your souls.”

The salvation of our spirits happens instantly the moment we receive Christ but the salvation of our souls is an ongoing process that comes by continually receiving the Word of God. 

Through the Word and the Spirit, transformation occurs into our souls, transforming our souls to bear the image of the spirit man [2Cor 3:18] who now looks like God. The revelation of Christ is foundation for the transformation of the believer. 

Every time God unveils truth, He is revealing a dimension of Himself, His wisdom, His power and His nature, to men. By revelation, we behold who He is and we are transformed to express, display and manifest His fullness to the world. Transformation starts with the shift in your mindset and consciousness. Now that you’re born again, there has to be a shift in your mindset and consciousness. You’ve been brought into the God-life. 

You cannot manifest and live as the expression of the God-kind with a mindset and consciousness that tells you that you’re just a speck of dust and a normal mere human being. That’s the mindset and the consciousness of the fallen man. 

This God-life has it’s own mindset and consciousness. Look at the life of Jesus on earth, you can tell that He had a different mindset and consciousness. 

At one point He tempted His disciples by asking them to feed crowds of thousands and they said, we don’t have enough to feed them, even if it means we go and work, it will still take long for us to have the money that can provide food for these people. The Lord just lifted up the basket and gave thanks and bread multiplied and they all ate and left baskets of leftovers. He understood that He always had enough even more than enough in His spirit. 

He always had a different mindset and consciousness. His disciples gave carnal reasons, they spoke from the fallen state but Jesus refused to see the limitations. Even when there was lack physically, He saw into the abundance, into His spirit. 

The Bible says, Rom 8:6: “For to be carnally minded is death; but to be spiritually minded is life and peace.” Carnality separates men from what God has given to them. Remember, death is separation, death is limitation. 

Carnal mindset and consciousness separates you from the glorious privileges and rights given to you in Christ. God wants us now to walk after the Spirit [Rom 8:5]. Walking after the Spirit is to walk according to how God defines us in Christ. Walking according to the revelation of eternal life, the God-life. I no longer see myself sick and broke. I see now the provision of God all round me because of what I carry in my spirit. 

The Bible says, Eph 2:15: "Having abolished in his flesh the enmity… Not contextually but broadening our lenses, whatever that was done in His body, was done so that He may create in Himself one new man, one that cannot be called sick, beggarly and broke. 

This verse is saying, He abolished (destroyed) in His flesh the enmity(enemy). Remember He also destroyed sicknesses and diseases in His body, He defeated sin in His body, to the intent that the new man created in Himself may walk in victory over sin and sicknesses.

We have ascended to a place in Christ where we are victors over every form of evil. Sickness and diseases are not consistent with our nature, God’s life, eternal life in us. Eternal life gives us authority over all forms and works of darkness and devils. 

The Militant Confession



As I said previously that a believer ought to live as defined by God in Christ. There are very dangerous confessions laid up for us in the Bible that many believers have ignored. 

Imagine the Lord saying, John 10:30: “I and my Father are one.” This confession as simple as it sounds is a very dangerous confession, this is why whenever Jews heard Him confessing these words, they picked stones to stone Him. Demons in those Jews could not take it because that confession of His oneness with the Father is fire in the spirit. They called it blasphemy saying you being a man, make yourself God, [John 10:33]. But this was the reality of the Lord Jesus Christ on earth, He was indeed God in the flesh. 

The Bible says, Col 2:9: “For in him dwells all the fullness of the Godhead bodily.” The word “Godhead” is the word “Theotes” in Greek and it means “the state of being God”. So Jesus wasn’t wrong in saying, I and the Father are one. 

Do you know today, that’s our reality in this earth, the Godhead dwells in the quarters of our bodies. We are full of Christ, the fullness of God(Godhead) abides in us.

 The Bible says, TPT Col 2:10 And our own completeness is now found in him. We are completely filled with God as Christ’s fullness overflows within us. He is the Head of every kingdom and authority in the universe! Verse 9 reveals to us the very thing that filled Christ and the fullness of Christ is the Godhead. Too hard for a carnal mind to take it. 

The Bible says, John 14:23: “Jesus answered and said to him, If a man love me, he will keep my words: and my Father will love him, and we will come to him, and make our stayed with him.”

Look at the words “we will” in plural, there the Lord meant the Godhead, the fullness of God coming to dwell in the human body. The day we accepted the Lord, instantly the Godhead, the fullness came into our bodies. 

Therefore a believer must be deeply acquainted with the revelation of their oneness with God in Christ. God is now the life in us, the glory in us, the wisdom in us, the power in us, the authority in us. Now we can talk like the Lord Jesus, we are one with the Father. 

We are the mystery of godliness, God in the flesh manifesting into the world of man. It’s high time we step up into this revelation, it positions us for tremendous God manifestations and experiences. 

Can you hear Apostle Paul saying, Gal 2:20: “I am crucified with Christ: nevertheless I live; yet not I, but Christ lives in me: and the life which I now live in the flesh I live by the faith of the Son of God, who loved me, and gave himself for me.”

Apostle Paul recognizes that He died and the life He found active in himself is Christ. Remember who Christ is, He is the fullness of the Godhead in the flesh, and now Apostle Paul found the same functioning in himself and said, the Godhead is now living in me. 

This is a dangerous, militant confession, this is bringing war into the camp of the enemy. This is saying, I am no longer under satan’s authority anymore because God cannot be under the authority of any. 

Through the gospel, Christ has manifested His immortal life in us. The Bible says, 1Tim 6:16: “Who (God) only has immortality, dwelling in the light which no man can approach to; whom no man has seen, nor can see: to whom be honor and power everlasting. Amen.”

Looking at this you’re likely to think that we cannot see God since it’s saying “no man can approach”, but listen carefully here, we are more than man but are gods. Apostle Paul isn’t talking about us in this verse but the people of the world. Remember the Bible says Eph 2:18: “For through him we both have access by one Spirit to the Father.” 

How can we have access to someone we cannot approach? This tells us that we are not the ones being spoken of there. The Lord even said, the world cannot receive the Holy Spirit because they cannot see Him. 

John 14:17. Now coming back to 1Tim 6:16. Let’s put 2Tim 1:10: “But is now made manifest by the appearing of our Savior Jesus Christ, who has abolished death, and has brought life and immortality to light through the gospel:” 

1Tim 6:16 says, only God has immorality then 2 Tim 1:10 says Christ through the gospel has brought life and immortality to light having abolished death. These verses are not contradicting. 

Here is the mystery revealed. Only God has immortality but through the gospel He introduced the same to us and imparted immorality and life in us. Let’s take it a bit higher. 

God does not have immortality but God is immortality and life, like I said that God desired from the very beginning to be life in man. He has achieved His desire through the gospel of Christ. The gospel is the unveiling and the manifestation of immorality and life. 

Immortality means not subject to death, it means incorruptible, it’s means perpetuity. God through the gospel of Christ dismantled death, obliterating all it’s effects on our lives. The Bible says, we have passed from death unto life. God is the immorality and life in us. Our verse continues to say, God dwells in an unapproachable light. Taking it high, God is the unapproachable light. When this light(God) came into the world of man, the Bible says, 

John 1:5: "And the light shines in darkness; and the darkness comprehended it not." Amplified version says, and darkness has never overpowered it, that is to put it out or absorbed it or appropriated it and is unreceptive to it. 

The unapproachable light, is the revelation of the eternal life, it is the God-Life. A normal human being cannot approach neither understand this life unless they are born again. Look carefully here, John 1:4 says the life that was in Christ was the light of man, right after that, verse 5 says and the light shines in darkness and darkness comprehended it not. 

We can now easily understand that that eternal life which is the light that the Bible is talking about is the unapproachable light. The revelation of this eternal life is so powerful that darkness cannot be friend with it and overpower it. 

And I am saying to you now that eternal life is God, which is the unapproachable light, the revelation and the power of this life is bottomless, boundless and endless. 

Let us embrace this eternal life which is God living in us, God being our life. The Bible says, lay hold on eternal life… In my book called The Spirit Man, I said “true spirituality is embracing our spiritual selves”. This means agreeing to what we have become in Christ. So when we confess our oneness with God, we affirm that we are no longer under the authority of darkness. We are declaring that we are in charge and are ruling in this world. [Rom 5:17]. 

The confession and the consciousness of that life destroys sicknesses and diseases and aligns us for a victorious and glorious experiences in Christ. Any other life, submits to this God-life, no wonder the Lord could speak to inanimate and animate things and they obeyed Him. 

He spoke to those in graves both physically and spiritually and they came out. He said, time is coming when those who are in the graves will hear my voice and come back to life [John 5:28-29]. 

He wasn’t just pointing out to His return because He proved it while on earth, He raised the dead, He called out Lazarus from the grave and came back of life. He called a little girl from the dead. 

The point is, when you align your consciousness to this revelation that God is life in you, and confess it until you become one with that revelation, even your voice will begin to transfer life from within you into things and people. 

I want it to sink deep into you that God is life in you, you’re filled with the Godhead, things can respond to you now as they would to God because you’re the mystery of godliness, God manifest in the flesh. 

Read my book called “The Highest Order Of Life”. The revelation of Christ in that book is deeply rich. This is a militant confession, your oneness with God. It took Christ to defeat sin, the world, the devil for us to be one with God. So when you declare your oneness with God, you affirm that the devil was defeated and rendered useless and void. You weaken the devils, you bring in view that the devil was dethroned and you’re now in charge, ruling with and by Christ. [Rom 5:17]

Confessing your oneness with God is the militant and the most dangerous confession that can come out of your mouth. The Holy Spirit is in you now, therefore you know all things. [1John 2:20].

It’s not a simple confession to say, the Holy Spirit is in you and that you are one with Him. He has removed the gap between us and bonded us to God.

The Holy Spirit is the power behind creation, the heaven’s counsellor, He is the God in us, He is the mystery behind our union with God in this world. The Bible says, 1Jn 3:24: "… And hereby we know that He(Christ, The one in whom the Godhead dwells) stays in us, by the Spirit which he has given us."

I have realized that things don’t just respond to voices but respond to who you are, our identity. This is why the Lord before bringing Lazarus back to life, He said to Martha a sister to Lazarus, I am the resurrection and life. [John 11:25].

You know what? You also are the resurrection and life. All that He is, is what we have become. We share the same identity, if He is the life and resurrection as the vine, definitely the branches carries the same name or identity. 

We are now sharing together the same throne. [John 14:2-3]. Let nothing stop you from having this militant confession on your mouth. Humility is first agreeing with God both spiritually, mentally and in your confessions. I pray this revelation finds a way into your life and experientially you begin to have God-experiences because you have in you the God-life. May your life be filled with the experiences of God. The testimonies of glory. 


==================================================

BOOK: THE SPIRIT MAN

AUTHOR: SHEMMY GAVIYAO

CATEGORY:

Human Spirit | Holy Spirit | Spiritual Life | Identity In Christ


SOURCE MATERIAL:

The Spirit Man

Copyright  ©  Shemmy Gaviyao/2025 Shemmy Gaviyao asserts the  moral  rights  to  be  identified as the author of  this work. All  rights reserved  in all  media. No part  of  this publication  may  be reproduced, or transmitted,  in any form, or  by any means,  without  the prior written permission of  the author  and/or publisher.

Email :shemmydnf@gmail.com

Facebook: Blessed Shemmy Gaviyao

WhatsApp: 0779742766

Contents

Chapter 1. Page 8

The Spirit, Soul And The Body



Chapter 2. Page 30

Imitators Of God



Chapter 3. Page 44

Educating Your Spirit 



Chapter 4. Page 81

The Impact Of The Holy Spirit 

On Our Spirits Souls And Bodies 









FOREWORD

This book is especially written to and for those born again for the purpose of enlightening you about who you are and your position in Christ. The Bible says, Gal 5:25: "If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit." 

One of the misunderstanding we have in Church is having people who wants to teach us how to enter into the spirit, but looking at this verse, Apostle Paul he’s not talking about entering the spirit but walking in the spirit. 

When you got born again, you were not born of flesh and blood nor the will of men but you are born of the Spirit. The Bible also says, Rom 8:9: "But you are not in the flesh, but in the Spirit, if so be that the Spirit of God dwell in you. 

Look here, being born of the Spirit, and having the Holy Spirit in you it means, the realm of the Spirit is our pre-configured default of our dwelling spiritually, our habitation. 

We are spirit beings and naturally you dwell in the spirit. Paul’s instruction is to teach you about how to walk from where you already dwell. 

It is indifference in the things of the Spirit to teach a man to enter into a place where they already dwell except by false interpretation of scriptures, you preach them out of that place. 

So Christians cannot live a glorious lives because they live as carnal man and only plug into the spirit when they want something. 

The Bible says, Heb 12:22: “But you are come to mount Sion, and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to an innumerable company of angels,”  Sion is not a physical place but a spiritual place where we have come to dwell, it’s called the heavenly Jerusalem, it means spiritual Jerusalem. So where we are supposed to teach man to walk, we are teaching them to enter first. 

That’s an error because then we are separating them from the life that has been given them by faith in Christ Jesus. Walking in the spirit is a very deep concept and conversation and I will not open up to say some things now but in the volume 2 of this book. 

I want you to understand that you are not limited to your physical body and presence. There’s more to and for you if you learn to walk in the Spirit. Many believers are more alive in the flesh than in the spirit where they dwell spiritually. 

The Bible says in Ezek 36:27: “And I will put my spirit within you, and CAUSE you to walk in my statutes, and you shall keep my judgments, and do them.” The spirit realm is a place of obedience. The more you yield to the spirit realm to which you belong, you will start to function with a different energy. Tighten you seat belts we take off. 



Chapter 1

The Spirit, Soul, And The Body



It’s very important that we first define what this spirit man is and where he came from. A man is comprised of three dimensions which are spirit, soul and body.

The Bible says in 1Ths 5:23: "And the very God of peace sanctify you wholly; and I pray God your whole spirit and soul and body be preserved blameless unto the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ." 

I will explain all these dimensions but mostly dwell on the spirit man since it’s the focus of our book. I want you to understand that man is not a soul or body but man is a spirit. The Bible says in, Gen 1:26: “And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness… 

To better understand this, let’s also look at another verse from the book of John 4:24: “God is a Spirit… So now we can better understand the you that looks exactly like God, it is the spirit man. 

Since God is a spirit, a man is also a spirit who is created in the image of God and after His likeness. Therefore man is a spirit not soul or physical body. 

The real man is the one inside the body which is the spirit man, that man looks exactly like God, that man inside is an epitome of God. That spirit man carries the attributes and the essence of God. 

How powerful the spirit man is, is beyond words can tell because the spirit man carries within himself the power of the Holy Spirit that created the whole universe and creation. This spirit man is birthed in the realms and class of God. The spirit man is one with the Holy Spirit. 1 Corinthians 6:7. After understanding who a man is, let us go into the second thing.





Soul And Body

The body is the housing of the spirit, the Bible says, Gen 2:7: “And the LORD God formed man of the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and man became a living soul.” 

Look here, this physical body was made from dust meaning made of the earthly substances unlike the spirit that was made from and by God. 

Now the formation of the soul came into existence when God breathed into the body’s nostrils. So when the spirit or breath of life and the body came into contact, the soul came into existence or it came alive. The soul is the seat of the mind, emotions and the intellect. 

The body contains flesh, blood, bones and water. The soul also seats in-between the spirit and body. I can simply say, the soul is the information center.

If anything happens to the body, let’s say an injury happens to the body, the soul is the one that send the signal of pain to the body. I called a soul information center because that’s where the mind is, listen carefully, it doesn’t mean that the spirit does not store information. 

I will explain in depth about it but since we are dealing with the soul and the body, it’s best we see how these came into being and how they function as well. 

Like I said, the spirit which is the real you that dwells in the quarters of this physical body looks exactly like God, and God wants this spirit man to influence the soul and the body to submit to the order of God-likeness and that your spirit gains mastery over them. 

The spirit man was not active when Adam was created, he only became a living soul, so God related with him from the soulish realm. 

At the first place, Adam needed to learn how to activate the spirit and walk in the Spirit.  Let’s look at this spirit man in greater detail. 



The Spirit Man

Agent Of Dominion



We already established that your spirit (the man inside) is the one created in the image and the likeness of God. This spirit man is so powerful and majestic because of it’s origin and the realm of it’s operation. 

The spirit man came from God, the raw material that made this spirit man is God, by that I don’t just mean that the spirit was created by God but I mean this spirit man was made from God, just like the physical body was made from dust. 

This spirit man was made of God’s substance, this is why this spirit man is so powerful. This spirit man is the one that can contact God and the spirit realm, God created this spirit man with the ability to function in the spirit realm since he is a spirit. 

When God placed this spirit man into the physical body, He did it so that the spirit man may find expression in the earth through the physical body. The physical body is in contact with the material world, meaning God wants the spirit man to touch the physical realm through this body. 

I want you to see something so deep from the scriptures, the Bible says in Gen 1:26: "And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness: and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth." 

The man ordained for dominion is the spirit man, and God said the spirit man must have dominion  over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air and over the cattle and over all the earth and over every creeping thing that creeps upon the earth. 

Look here, the spirit man was given dominion over the physical body in which he was to be placed since the body was one of the things that moved upon the earth. The spirit man is the one given dominion to rule over the earth dimension from the spirit realm. Another question is, how’s this spirit man possibly going to have dominion over the fish since they stay in water? Or to exercise dominion over the birds of the air?

 Remember, the human body contains all earthly dimensions which is water, air earth, that the spirit man must rule over.

You may ask again about the fowl or birds in the air, it makes no difference because this human body like I said carries that dimension of the air also, that’s why you are breathing signifying that you are also in contact with the air. 

You don’t need to travel in the water to exercise dominion or travel in the air to exercise dominion because this body carries the points of contact of every earthly realms and dimension. 

Through these portals located in your body, the spirit man can find expression to exercise and establish dominion over the earth realms. Your spirit, the you inside the body is an agent of dominion and this physical body is a platform on which the spirit man must find expression in the earth dimensions. 

The spirit man is an epitome of God, by that I mean God wanted to rule on earth dimension and He created this spirit man as a reflection of Himself. 

This spirit man was created in the likeness of God, meaning after the similitude of His functionalities and operations. Look again closely to something very deep here, we are calling him the spirit man for you to understand the nature of what we are talking about but this spirit man is a god man in this realm.

 God has His dimension where He rules over but the earth realm He gave it to another god which is the spirit man created in His image after His likeness. This is why Jesus needed to be as the Son of man also to qualify for dominion on earth. What made Him the son of man was the physical body, so Jesus was never going to exercise dominion on earth except He had a body through which the God-dimension would find expression over the earth realm. 

This is why you see that Jesus spoke to trees and they listened to Him, waters held Him up and did not drawn Him, at one point Peter and his fellows failed to catch fish the whole night, but when Jesus arrived, He summoned the fish to come into their net and they caught multitudes of fish. 

He spoke to the winds and they understood His language, this is why I said to you that all these dimensions are found in man. The mystery is hidden in the relationship of the physical body and the spirit man. 

Jesus came to demonstrate how God originally designed the spirit to function like through the force of faith. Understand that this physical body is connected to every realm or dimension of the earth, the air or wind, earth, waters. The devil is also called the prince of the power of the air. 

The dominion that the spirit man was given was not only limited to birds but stretched also to the powers of the prince of darkness in the air. 

The spirit man is connected to God, spirit realms and our physical bodies. Since your spirit is connected to your physical body, it also has legal right to exercise dominion over every dimension that is in the earth. 

Your spirit is very powerful because it is connected to God, it is empowered by His power and glory. This spirit man is a god over the earth, this spirit man is an agent of dominion. 

Listen, men was created to function from the spirit realm to the earth realm because power is in your spirit if you are born again. Look at this, the spirit man is so powerful because it is connected to God, the spirit realms and operates with the power of Elohim. 

This simply means, anything that hears your spirit man speaking or giving instructions it hears you exactly like God is speaking. 



God Blessed Them



Gen 1:28: “And God blessed them, and God said unto them, Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it: and have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth.”

Look here, God blessed them, the spirit man. The word blessed means to endow with power and consecrate. In this case, God is setting the spirit man apart for a special role, purpose and endowing them with a sacred responsibility to steward creation. 

So after God had blessed this spirit man, remember we do not have the physical body yet but the spirit man standing before God. 

So God then starts to speak to the spirit man saying, Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it: and have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth.

Notice something extraordinary here, the same voice that spoke the whole creation into being is the one speaking to the spirit man, I want you to understand that this is bigger than giving instructions but it’s an impartation of abilities to steward the whole realms of creation. It’s like God is giving His voice to the spirit man and saying go with my voice, over the earth dimensions and creation will stand to obey your voice as you speak out. 

The first order was to be fruitful, the second was to multiply, the third was to replenish, then the forth was to subdue. 

Lastly He told them to have dominion over the whole earth, waters and wind or air dimensions. Look here, God told them to subdue the earth dimensions, that is to keep every realm of the earth under their power, harsh word used there is ”force”.

The earth realm was created to be governed by the spirit man, keep it under subjection and control of their dominion, influence and will. 

The word dominion means also to influence and dominate, this spirit man is so powerful that it has the ability to influence the earth realm in all it’s dimensions. The more we learn to function from our original place the spirit realm, everything in this earth will be subjected to our authority and blessing. 

A blessing is not a physical thing but spiritual ability given to the spirit man that makes good results visible in the earth realm or the ability we use to birth spiritual realities into the physical world. 

A blessing is an empowerment to prosper and to succeed. Now to a born again child of God, God Himself dwells in your spirit and is one with your spirit, which makes your spirit very outstanding.

The spirit man has the capacity like God’s. I will break this down later. 



Understanding The Spirit Realm And The Physical Realm



The spirit realm and the physical realm operates with or under different laws. Listen carefully, we now name them spiritual and physical laws because of the fall of men but in the beginning, only spiritual laws were in motion over the earth realm. 

Those spiritual laws governed the earth realms. The physical realm which is the earth realm is subject to the power of time and distance, yet the spirit realm is not subject to the power of time and distance. 

God, who always Is, created all time, space and energy. Since God does not exist in these limits, we cannot imagine the dimension of God (since as His creation,  we always think of existence in  terms of time, space and energy) in the physical. 

Those who try to define God by these limits are attempting to describe God from  the human point of  view. Adam did not need to be everywhere physically to execute judgement over that earth realm, because according to the laws of the spirit realm, words can be where your physical body is not, words travels along with your spirit. Look at it this way, God is able to manifest Himself in every dimension without leaving His throne. God is in every dimension of His and outside every dimension also. 

In the same way, our spirits are seated with Christ in the heavenly places. Places in plural, we are in every realm with Christ. The throne on which we sit with Christ enables us to manifest in every realm and dimension. 

One mystery is found in words, you are where your words are even though physically you are not there. Words are spirits, they can travel anywhere and represent you. 

Physically I need to board an airplane to be in America since the physical operates with the order of distance but the spirit realm doesn’t operate with the law of distance in the similitude of the earth realm. It’s a different thing when it comes to the spirit man especially a born again. The Bible teaches us that God is everywhere at the same time, and also teaches us that we are now one with Him. 

Our spirit are joined together with the Holy Spirit, God also imparted in us eternal life, it’s a dimension of life that is outside time, meaning to say we also as God can operate beyond time and every dimension. 

The spirit man operates in the eternal dimension of God, the word “eternal” means timeless, never ending, without distance. This is the dimension that makes God omnipresent because time and distance does not exist in His realm. 

Once your spirit is located in that dimension of God through regeneration, that is to receive Christ, you start functioning in that dimension that is timeless and never ending because the moment you receive Christ. He imparts into you the very eternal life, the life and the nature of God. Life beyond time and distance. 

I want you to look at something deep the Lord said in John 3:13: “And no man has ascended up to heaven, but he that came down from heaven, even the Son of man which is in heaven.” 

Jesus reveals something deep here, He pointed out that He existed in the earth and as well in the heaven. Something worthy noticing here is what Jesus called Himself, that is the son on man. 

You may likely think that He existed in these dimensions because He was the God but no, even as the son of man with the very life of God which is the qualification for that possibility. 

Jesus in His earthly days would manifest in different places without leaving where He was physically. It is very difficult to explain these things in human language but we can try to put it in shadows and symbols. Look here, there are endless dimensions of possibilities, creativeness, glories, graces, ranks, power, authority, wisdom, knowledge and understanding in that dimension called eternal life. 

So the physical distance can only be covered by walking to and from but spiritual distance can only be covered by light(revelation) what is limiting the operation of your spirit now is the lack of the revelation of Christ. 

I called it spiritual distance because of the limitation one can experience due to lack of revelation. Revelation is a place of access in the spirit realm. This spiritual distance is not necessarily covered by time but by light [John 1:4] (wisdom and revelation of Christ). 

The earth realm is a slave to a greater light, remember the first thing God did in creation was to first say, “let there be light”. It’s not because God was not seeing in that darkness but first He brought out the light that was in Him and covered every dimension then started creation in the presence of that light (light of creation).

That light was not the sun because sun was created after. This is the light John talked about saying John 1:4: "In HIM was life; and the LIFE was the LIGHT of men." The “Him” in this portion of scripture is Christ Jesus by whom all things both visible and invisible were created. 

The whole mystery of creation is not just predicated on God speaking creation into being but the place from which God stood while creating. 

Look  here that life is described as the light, that’s the light that gave life to the whole creation while God spoke. This is the very life(light) Jesus came to impart into our spirits according to [John 10:10]. The moment we submit to the order of this life, Jesus calls us the light of the world, we are the light of creation that is why the deliverance of the creation depends on us.

This is the mystery, God created the spirit man and placed him in the physically body so that he may  live in sync of two dimensions, the spirit and earth realm. 

We are not just in the spirit realm but we are located in God, He is the realm of our existence and operations. Listen, the earth dimension is a slave to the spirit realm, the laws of the spirit realm are higher than the earthly laws. 

God wants us to govern this earth realm from the spirit realms. This is the original design of our function in this realm. 

Now having established these things, I want to give you a revelation that can help you become effective and operational in the spirit realms as God intends. The Bible says, 2Pet 1:4: “Whereby are given to us exceeding great and precious promises: that by these you might be partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world through lust.”

Chapter 2

Imitators Of God



We were originally created and designed to function like God by default and this is only possible when we start functioning from our rightful place. This is why He did created us in His image after His likeness. 

Apostle Paul in one portion of the scripture says, Eph 5:1: “Be ye therefore followers of God as dear children:” The word “followers” means imitator or copy and in this case, he is saying copy God, imitate God. Understand that you can live as God, He wants the world to see Him while they look at you. 

We are God’s representatives on earth, He created us in His image and likeness because He wanted to see Himself in and through us in the earth. 



THE FULLNESS OF GOD



The Bible says in, Col 2:9: “For in him dwelleth all the fullness of the Godhead bodily.” Jesus was and is the embodiment of the fullness of the glory of God, the Bible calls Him the visible image of the invisible God. 

I want us to look into this verse from Passion Translation version and see what it says, Col 2:9 9 For he is the complete fullness of deity living in human form. Look at this, the fullness of God meaning all that God is and have was in human form which is Christ Jesus when He walked on earth. I want you to see what the following verse says in Passion Translation. 

Col 2:10 And our own completeness is now found in him. We are completely filled with God as Christ’s fullness overflows within us. He is the Head of every kingdom and authority in the universe!. 

This is so deep, the Bible is saying here that we also are filled with God to the overflow from within us that is from the inner man, the spirit man. 

Look at it this way, the Bible is saying that Christ is the complete fullness of deity living in human form and that we are completely not partly but completely filled with God as Christ’s fullness overflows within us. 

Now what is Christ’s overflow? Christ’s overflow is what filled Him which is the fullness of the Godhead. No wonder He said, if any loves me, I and the Father we shall come and make our home in him.

Listen, your spirit, our spirits being born again are a home for God, we host the total sum of God, He dwells in us. 

The Bible says, the Godhead dwelt in Jesus, the word “Godhead” in Greek text means “Theotes” and it means the state of being God. 

Now the Godhead, the fullness and the totality of God dwells in us even as Christ is in us. We also are in the state of being God, no wonder we are gods.

The last part of that verse says, He is the Head of every kingdom and authority in the universe. Now if you are filled with this kind of God with such an authority, what does that make you? 

The one who heads every kingdom and authority has filled you to the overflow, this is how powerful we have become in this world. Jesus in one of His prayer for us said John 17:22: "And the glory which thou gavest me I have given them…:"   

This means we as God’s children carry the fullness of the glory of God as was given to us by the person of Christ. By reason of our new identity in God, every virtue that defines the Godhead is now embedded in us, setting us apart. 

Holiness also is a nature that He bestowed on us to consecrate, distinguish and align us to serve Him effectively as we ought, that is why we can now imitate God.

All that defines God to be God is now born and imparted into our spirits, moreover He has made our spirits His home and one with Himself in the person of Christ. 

Like I said, He placed the spirit man in the physical body so that all that the spirit man is and has may find expression in the earth through the physical body. With this understanding of what you carry in your spirit, how can sicknesses, diseases and even demons be inside your body?. 

Listen, you are a god experiencing life through human form and that life is not human life but the life that the Lord came to give. I always teach people that, God gave us His life so that we may live as God in this life. 

It’s called life incorruptible, once this life touches the human body, sickness and diseases becomes the things of the past. At this point, all I want you to understand is what you’re carrying in your spirit man. 

You are full of God in your spirit to the overflow, and that God in you wants to find expression to touch the world through that body of yours. 

God is in your spirit, you are glued to each other. The Bible says, 1Cor 6:17: “But he that is joined unto the Lord is one spirit.” We have been brought into oneness with the Lord, this is what took place when we got born again, we were brought into this deep union with Him that the devil while looking at us, he cannot tell us from God. 

We carry His seed or rather we are His seed, His DNA is in our spirits, identified together with Him. Understand that your spirit looks exactly like God. 

Many desires to be like angels but listen we were created to be something bigger than angels. The sum total of His perfection, power and glory is now in us, in our spirits. 

All the things that defines God is found in our spirits and not only are we in God but God is in us and we are one with Him. 

The moment we will learn to function from our spirits, the place where we are one with God, we will start to command life and have it subjected to our authority and power. We have been made one with all that Christ Jesus is. 

We head with Him over  every kingdom and authority in the universe. The Bible says something very deep in the book of Hebrews 1 verse 4 from TPT translation,  Hebrews 1:4 Jesus, Greater than Angels He is infinitely greater than angels, for he inherited a rank and a Name far greater than theirs. 

Now in Aramaic this verse carries a deeper meaning than in Greek, in Aramaic it literally mean that Jesus is now given “The Name” that is, He has the title of God.

The word “the name” in Aramaic is “Ha-Shem” and it’s a definite article. Now that same name is imprinted upon our spirits. 

We are given that name as our inheritance in Christ Jesus, making us occupy highest ranks and dimensions to an extent of carrying within us the power that brought all things into existence. Meaning, we are infinitely greater than angels and the whole creation because we are now ranked together with Christ and sit with Him in that same seat of authority and reign with and through Christ. 

In this new testament, God does not have names like in the old testament but God has a NAME that defines all the He is at once which is Christ Jesus. 

That’s the same name we have inherited and it carries the sum total of the Godhead. Can you just imagine how infinitely great we are in Christ Jesus. 

He Is The Head Of The Body The Church



The Bible gives us the picture of our relationship with Christ as the Church and says, Eph 1:22-23: “And hath put all things under his feet, and gave him to be the head over all things to the church, Which is his body, the fullness of him that filleth all in all.”

Look here, Christ is said to be the head of the body which is the Church. I feel like the Church hasn’t been taking it’s full place in this world, notice that the first line is saying, He has put all things under his feet.

Under His feet means He has conquered, subdued and now rules over all things through us the Church. In this case the feet is a symbol of power and authority. 

God wants everything to be subjected to the authority, power and dominion of the Church not that  the Church to be controlled by the systems of the world. 

Now, I want you to look at something very deep here, we are sharers of His authority and power, this is why He gave us His Name, that is His rank and distinction to host and use in this world. Look at this scripture, Ps 133:2: “It is like the precious ointment (anointing) upon the head, that ran down upon the beard, even Aaron’s beard: that went down to the skirts of his garments;” 

The anointing from the head is flowing to the beard and even down to the skirts of his garment, it is still the same anointing, it doesn’t change because it’s now on the beard and to the skirts of his garment. 

In other words I mean to say the anointing, authority and rank that is on Christ who is the Head, is the same anointing, authority and rank flowing to us the members of His body the Church. 

Therefore it is not wrong to say that we are as anointed as Christ is, we share in His rank no wonder all things are placed under His feet. The body spiritually speaking is where the head is, seated above all power, dominion, authority and whatsoever thing in this world. 

Remember this is our spiritual relationship with Christ and I told you that that authority of Christ must be seen in this world from your spirit through the physical body. 

This is so deep and worthy of meditation. Your spirit is loaded with so much riches in and of Christ. See from within you. 

When we come together as a Church, if we can look at our selves from the spiritual point of view, I tell you that the world will stand amazed at the glory of God they will see in this life. 

The idea of salvation was not just about taking men to heaven or free men from sin but also to ensure that men is restored to dominion, it’s the deepest revelation of the celestials. Our roots are in God, we carry the same life and power and whenever we exercise authority, the whole creation hears the Almighty God speaking through us. 

The deepest dimensions of God's presence reside within the spirit of a man. He no longer dwells in designated places as in the Old Testament, He lives within you. 

Draw from His presence within and let it flow outward. Let us take full advantage of what belong to us in Christ Jesus as the Church, we are saviors from Zion. 

Do you know what it means for Jesus to kneel down and pray a prayer like, “Father the glory that you gave me, I have given them…” 

In my book called the Highest Order Of Life I said, the Bible says, God has crowned man with glory and honor… Everything that honors God now honors you. I went on to say, What  is  glory? Glory  in  the Greek  is  the  word  doxa.  Doxa  means to  honour  something,  or  to  praise,  or dignity  or  to  exalt  something. Meaning,  your  glory  is  your  dignity. 

Your  glory  is  your  praise  and  your glory  exalt  you  above  all  things. It  is the  glory  of  God  on  you  that  exalts you.  It  is  the  glory  of  God  on  you  that magnifies  your  name  before  the  earth. 

It  is  the  glory  of  God  on  you  that  gives you  dignity  and  beauty  before  many. Above all,  it  is  the  glory  of  God  on  you that  makes  demons identify  or recognize  you  as  Christ’s. 

Listen that’s the glory that Christ left us with. Come up to this reality and live accordingly. It is the glory of God on the Church that makes all things to come under His feet. 

In our next chapter I want to teach you how to activate your spirit to exercise all these things that i have mentioned. 

Chapter 3

Educating Your Spirit



In this chapter I want to teach you on how to activate your spirit into these things I have been sharing with you. Our spirits can be educated just as our minds can be educated. 

Our spirits can be built up in strength and trained just as our bodies can be built up and trained. The first step that CAN usher you into walking into these realities is called:



CONSCIOUSNESS. You cannot walk into realities you are not conscious of, that awareness is deeply important if you are to walk into the supernatural realms. 

An awareness that tells you that you are not a speck of dust but a Spirit  filled believer, rooted in God and dwelling in human body. 

Your awareness activates or awakens you to your identity and possibilities, it activates you to the possibilities attached to your identity. 

Imagine a bird that is not conscious of it's identity, it can be killed by a cat on the ground when it can fly high in the air but because the bird is not aware or conscious of it’s identity and capabilities, it cannot take advantage of the privileges and rights given to it to use it’s wings. 

Many Christians have been disadvantaged because they do not know who they are, they are not walking in the  consciousness of their true selves in Christ. 

The prodigal son kept on feeding with pigs until he came back to his senses and said, in my father’s house all servants eats what they want and sleep on good beds. It was that consciousness, that awareness that brought him back home. That realization is what you need to be conscious of that you’re more than a human being but a god-being. 

Look here, the Bible records that the first thing that happened to him was a realization, an awareness then that awareness powered his body to walk back home. 

I tell you that many have stepped out of their inheritance and are eating with swine only because they are not conscious of their identity and the place they belong to. 

The Bible says, Ps 82:5: “They know not, neither will they understand; they walk on in darkness: all the foundations of the earth are out of course.” 

Look here, the word “know” carries a connotation of the word “conscious or aware”. The Bible is letting us know that the reason why they walk on in darkness (disaster, disadvantages, chaos) and why the foundations of the earth are out of its course is because “they know not”. 

Later in the following verses He told them that you are gods and also the sons of God the most high but you shall die like men. 

Look here, all this is happening because these gods are separated from the awareness and consciousness of their identity. When gods are living in ignorance, they live and die like men. 

So consciousness and awareness of your identity and roots activates and energies your spirit man to walk in the realities of your possibilities attached to your identity in God. 

Get this and get it right. Identity crisis gives birth to crisis in life and this is the error giving the devil an upper hand over many believers. The greatest cry of God over His children is that, they are being destroyed because they lack knowledge. 

God said in the book of  Jer 32:27: “Behold, I am the LORD, the God of all flesh: is there any thing too hard for me?” Look close there, He first said what He is that is the LORD, the God of all flesh, now He then throws a deep question saying is there anything too hard for me? 

In other words God is saying, since I am the LORD, there is no failure in and through me. That identity of being the LORD defines the possibilities captured in Him. 

Understand that that knowledge of your identity creates a certain awareness and that will lead us into our next step in educating our spirits. 

Be aware of who you’ve become in Christ, the advantages that are given to you in Him.  If your consciousness has not been changed and aligned with the word of God, the word shall not have its perfect work in your life. True transformation starts with the shift in your mindset and consciousness.

MEDITATION, is one of the powerful keys in the school of the Spirit. Meditation is feasting upon the realities of your existence and possibilities in God as shown from the Word of God. 

The Bible says, TPT Col 3:2 Yes, feast on all the treasures of the heavenly realm and fill your thoughts with heavenly realities, and not with the distractions of the natural realm. 

After getting born again, there is a way your mind is supposed to set and programmed if the spirit man is to find expression in the earth realm. 

In the book of Isaiah the Lord said, my ways are not your ways neither my thoughts are your thoughts. As the heavens are far above the earth so are my ways higher than yours. 

The reason why His ways are not our ways is not because His ways cannot be our ways but it is because of His thinking that sets His ways above ours. 

So God gives us His Word as a divine invitation to ascend to a place where His thoughts becomes our thoughts and His ways becomes our ways. That is through meditation of the Word 

The reason why Apostle Paul invites us by the Spirit to set our minds and feast on treasures of the heavenly realm by filling our thoughts with the heavenly realities is because, being a Christian is being awakened to a new life. 

The Bible says Col 3:1: “If ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God.” Apostle Paul is inviting us to adopt a certain mentality or mindset that can help us manifest the realities of where our spirits are located and seated with Christ. 

Remember the Bible tells us that we are seated with Christ, Eph 2:6: “And hath raised us up together, and made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus:” 

So Paul the Apostle is giving us a law that makes it possible for us to manifest the life in us in the earth realm that is by setting our minds on things above where Christ sitteth. 

Notice here, Apostle Paul is taking us deep into something serious, let’s see what Isaiah says, Isa 55:8: “For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, saith the LORD.”

We are being in taught by God through Isaiah the Prophet that my thoughts are not your thoughts and as a result your ways cannot be similar with mine because of how you’ve programed your minds. 

Look again, Isa 55:9: "For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts." 

Look now, so this means God’s ways are higher because He thinks a certain way, and now Apostle Paul makes an invitation to us to ascend through study of the Word and meditation to set our mind high above where Christ is seated and where we are seated with Him. 

All this it is so that we begin to function like God and operate with higher laws because we have set our minds high above the earth. 

God is saying, the only way you can adopt my ways is by changing your way of thinking, setting your mind and affection high above where the Lord Jesus is. God has awaken us into higher realms and we are supposed to set our minds to those realms. Once we have done that, The reality of Christ will start to shape out in the physical realm around us. 

A believer or Christian whose mind is patterned according to the patterns of the world cannot manifest the realities and possibilities of the realms to which his spirit is awaken to, that is in Christ. 

Apostle Paul tells us not to be conformed to the standards or patterns of the world but to be transformed by having our minds renewed [Romans 12:2]. 

Transformation is a possibility that can only be triggered by a renewed mind. Meditation is the reconciliation of the mind to the realms to which the spirit man has been awakened and made to sit.

Through the meditation of the Word, we pull down every stronghold, cast down every imagination, and every high thing that exalt itself above the knowledge of Christ, bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ. Many people who goes into spiritual warfare forgets this place of meditation, it’s a place where we war. 

In this case I want you to understand that the purpose of mediation is not really to make our minds understand what has taken place to our spirits because this mind cannot comprehend God. 

So the purpose of meditation is to bring the mind under subjection to the authority of our spirits through the Word of God. That’s what the Bible calls bringing every thought into captivity to the obedience of Christ. 

It’s like making the mind a slave to your spirit because what we are capable of doing is beyond the reasoning, the realm to which our minds are trained to function from. The Bible says, “bringing every thought into captivity and to the obedience of Christ”. There are realities beyond our minds are trained to grasp. Our minds have been trained to operate with five senses of the body. 

When our minds are set high above where Christ sitteth, we start to see Christ as our only reality, as our real life and only experience. 

Look at this, after setting our minds above where Christ sitteth and are now captured into that reality, the Bible says in that same chapter that, Col 3:4: “When Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then shall ye also appear with him in glory.” 

Notice here, when your mind is now captured into the realities of where Christ sitteth and where we are seated with Him, then comes the manifestation. 

Christ now becomes our present day reality and we also are captured into that same manifestations in the revelation of His glory. That is why the Bible is saying, “… we shall appear with Him in glory. “ The primary manifestation of the Christ is not in the physical but in the spiritual that is in our spirits. 

Transformation happens in our souls, we are making our souls to bear the image of glory that we have become in spirit in Christ. What we have become in Christ being reflective in our souls 

The revelation of Christ is foundation for the transformation of the believer. Every divine encounter is to the end that you should receive the revelation of Christ and what He accomplished on the cross for your sake. 

If your consciousness has not been changed and aligned with the word of God, the word shall not have its perfect work in your life. True transformation starts with the shift in your mindset and consciousness. When our souls connects to that reality of the Christ through the spirit of revelation, we also are carried along into that which we have seen in glory and are empowered to manifest or transact that reality from the spirit realm to the physical realm. 

Through meditation upon the Word, we are made to carry the understanding of our new identity in God, we are His handiwork, called to live the newness of life for His glory.

Meditation helps us to bring our spirits, souls and bodies in the same page. God ordained every believer to walk in the light of His revelation. 

His Word carries redemptive power, guiding us into His perfect will. We are called to live in the brilliance of His light, a light that illuminates our path and leads us into the fullness of His purpose. 

When we connect with Christ through the spirit of revelation, we then carry His reality, carrying in this case is not in a sense of having what you did not have but in a sense of being awaken to a certain reality in Christ, once we are awakened. 

It means we are empowered to manifest the same into the physical realm such that people will witness our oneness with Christ. 

Understand that things, I mean all things will start to change because of an elevated  consciousness, that is why He calls us to set our minds on things above where Christ is seated and we are seated with Him. 

A Christian is supposed to walked with an elevated consciousness, this is why we are called to set our minds high above where Christ is seated. 

When you pray and fast with an elevated consciousness, you’ll see and command life and have it subjected and obedient to your voice. This is why you must give yourself to the study and ministry of the Word because it is through His Word that He manifest to and in us by the force of revelation and wisdom.

Elevation by God comes with visible transformation. It may cost you certain friendships, comfort zones, or how others used to relate to you but that’s okay. By virtue of the new birth, we received the privilege of beholding the glory of God. 

This glory awakens us to the knowledge of all that God is, and to the exceeding greatness of power within our spirits for the transformation of lives and circumstances as carriers of His glory.

FAITH, is one of great spiritual laws that is designed to educate our spirits in God. Faith is of the spirit or faith is spiritual. 

Faith helps us to reconcile the spirit realm and the physical realm. It is that force our spirits engages to birth Christ realities in the earth. 

It’s like a transactional platform we use in the exercise our spirits to birth possibilities and realities that are captured in God. 

When we listen to the Word of God, revelation awakens our spirits, that’s what the Bible calls the coming of faith. Through the revelation of the Word, our spirits are brought into a certain awareness. 

It’s important we understand that awareness only cannot birth the realities of Christ but awakens our spirits to the operations of faith. An awareness or consciousness is like positioning your spirit at the right place. 

Revelation is what awakens consciousness but it takes faith, I mean the exercise of it to birth the realities and possibilities that you behold in Christ Jesus. Faith is bringing the power of God into practical life. Now the Bible says, Heb 11:1: “Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen.” 

The scripture tells us that… “hope that is seen is not hope…” Faith is that which gives hope substance, its something tangible even though unseen. The very evidence of the things not seen. 

Look here, even though not seen, there is the evidence meaning just because it is not seen doesn’t mean its not real. Listen, the very operation of faith demands that you must believe that that which you expect already exist in Christ otherwise there is no basis for faith. 

The assignment of faith is not necessarily creation, but to give that which exist expression within this realm. The Bible said, 2Pet 1:3: “According as his divine power hath given unto us ALL THINGS that pertain unto life and godliness, through the knowledge of him that hath called us to glory and virtue:” 

This means there is nothing that you don’t have that was not given to you, and there is nothing that you will ever need that was not given to you again. 

Notice I’m not saying that will be given to you but that was not given to you already, meaning it’s in the “past tense”. Many are just obsessed with the thought to wanting to create things not knowing that faith is giving recognition to that which already exists in Christ. 

The effectiveness of our faith is not hinged on the need to create things but what the Bible says here, Phlm 1:6: “That the communication of thy faith may become effectual by the acknowledging of every good thing which is in you in Christ Jesus.” 

The word communication means joint participation or operation, in other words Apostle Paul is awakening Philemon to the effective working of faith and it is through recognizing and appreciating every good thing which is in us in Christ Jesus. 

That’s where the exercise of our spirits comes in, when we give recognition to the very things, privileges and advantages attached to our spirits in Christ Jesus, faith is made effective to manifest those things we behold in us in Christ Jesus. 

Listen, there is nothing both in godliness and life that you’ll ever need that was not given to you in Christ. The very reality of creation is in this mystery, in the book of Genesis we are taught that before God spoke, His Spirit was moving on top of water. 

Notice here, in that creation, everything that God needed was there because that was an act of faith and like I said that  the very operation of faith demands that you must believe that that which you expect already exist otherwise there is no basis for faith and this is exactly what God did. 

His Spirit moving on top of the water, and Him giving recognition to that which already exists in Him yet not seen physically. 

I’m saying here that first of all if you want your faith to be powerful and effective in its operation, you must first allow your spirit to move or brood over the realities that are captured in your spirit in Christ. 

Through this practice, there’s an empowerment that comes from your spirit to birth all these realities. Our spirits are deeply rich with the riches of God, they are filled with all things that pertain to life and godliness. 

The Bible says, 2Cor 4:13: "We having the same spirit of faith, according as it is written, I believed, and therefore have I spoken; we also believe, and therefore speak;" Remember the law that empowers faith is in beholding and appreciating that which already exist in us(our spirits) in Christ. The basis of our faith is in the finished works of Christ. 

When our confessions are empowered from this angle, we will have tremendous results that will not allow the world to mock us for worshiping God. 

That doesn’t mean everyone will believe us but means even though they fail to believe, we will joy in the reality of birthing the realities of Christ in our experiences. 

Faith is a practical life, no wonder James says, faith without works is dead. Genuine faith confession empowers our spirits to drive the body for an action, it doesn’t just end in confession. 

Christianity is a practical life of faith, daily we must exercise the muscles of our faith is we are to grow our faith. The Bible talks of the mature people saying, “who by the reason of USE have exercised their senses to discern both good and evil.” They stepped into this reality by the reason of USE that is practical life of faith. 


PRAYER, is one of the vital key in exercising our spirit in God. The very foundation of prayer is not to petition God because with the understanding that we are given all things that pertain to life and godliness, we won’t need to petition God. 

So the very foundation of prayer which is the highest purpose of prayer is for fellowship with God. We must learn the disciplines of prayer. 

I always teach people that one of the greatest disciplines of prayer every believer must exercise himself or herself into is in building or creating routine over duration. When we talk about prayer, we are not talking about just an act of prayer but a lifestyle that is what I mean by routine. 

I placed routine over duration because many like I used to do are consumed with a zeal to pray long stretch of hours but remember that zeal without knowledge can birth disaster. 

There is a way to build your prayer life and first key is creating a culture, a routine of prayer. In routines, that is where hunger for prayer is strengthened and sustained. 

Many people prayed ten hours on one go and never prayed again for 5 months, they did something through zeal that they did not have strength in the spirit to sustain and maintain. 

Mostly importantly, every believer must cultivate a prayer life, the Lord in one place said, Luk 18:1: “And he spake a parable unto them to this end, that men ought ALWAYS to pray, and not to faint;” The key word in this passage of scripture is not prayer but is ALWAYS added to praying, meaning God desires that we cultivate a life of prayer consistently that we remain in contact with Him. 

We ought to submit ourselves to the disciplines that can align us to an always life of prayer especially speaking in tongues. 

Apostle Paul said, 1Cor 14:14: “For if I pray in an unknown tongue, MY SPIRIT PRAYETH… praying in tongues is one of the greatest spiritual exercises each and every believer must engage. 

In the book of Jude, the Bible says, Jud 1:20: “But ye, beloved, building up yourselves on your most holy faith, praying in the Holy Ghost,”

In this portion of scripture, praying in the Holy Spirit is speaking in tongues. You build yourself meaning improve yourself when you speak in tongues, notice here that speaking in tongues doesn’t give you faith but build you in faith, this is why you must constantly hear the Word of God and pray always especially in tongues. 

As you do so, those seeds of faith in your spirit will begin to be built and made stronger when you speak in tongues. 

Your faith is limited to the knowledge of God you’ve received, and your faith cannot be build higher than the Word of God in your spirit. 

Praying in tongues makes your spirit to find expression and makes you more sensitive to the voice of God. Do you know that one of the ways you express your faith boldly is through the exercise of praying in tongues. 

The Bible says, 1Cor 14:4: “He that speaketh in an unknown tongue EDIFIETH himself...” The word edify means to make bold, to build, to repair, to give growth to. Understand that the strength of your spirit is the strength of your life, your spirit’s strength is measured by the strength of your faith. 

Neglecting your spiritual building, is equivalent to neglecting your life. The Bible says, Prov 25:28: “He that hath no rule over his own spirit is like a city that is broken down, and without walls.” 

Many people doesn’t know how to govern their spirits, they have no restraint over their spirit because anything can control them and the Bible is saying you are like a city that is broken down and without walls. 

Remember the Lord said, we are a city build on a hill, but here if you have no rule over your spirit, you are vulnerable that’s what it means to be a city broken down without walls. 

The exercise of prayer helps your spirit to have mastery over your body.

My emphasis in this part is to explain prayer as part of your spirit exercise. Learn to tarry in God’s presence through prayer, there is a glory that will be rubbing on you each time you pray. 

Glory is weight, so while you tarry in God’s presence praying, you are also building glory upon you spirit. 

Some Christians are very light in the spirit because they haven’t submitted themselves to the place where they can exercise their spirits to host higher levels of glory and the presence in their lives. 

It’s time to shift ourselves from shallow waters of glory into highest levels through the exercise of our spirits in prayer.

THE WORD OF GOD, is one of the greatest keys given to us for our spirits or spiritual exercise. The training, the developing and educating of our spirits comes by giving the Word first place in our lives. 

Amplified Proverbs 4:20–22 says, “My son, attend to my words [Give heed to them. Put them first]; incline thine ear unto my sayings [Listen to what I have to say]. Let them not depart from thine eyes [Keep looking at the Word of God]; keep them [My Words] in the midst of thine heart. For they are life unto those that find them, and health to all their flesh. 

I want you to understand that, the day you became a Christian and the Holy Spirit came into your life, the power of God came also into you. 

You’ll notice that even though we have received the Holy Spirit and the power of God is in us, many do not know how to utilize that power. 

The problem is that, power is not useful without the knowledge of God’s Word. Many do not take the Word of God for living but just for quoting against devil’s and situations. But Jesus said, man shall not live by bread alone but by every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God yet many of God’s children are living on bread alone. 

Your knowledge of God’s Word equates the power you are able to move in and manifest. The revelational knowledge of God is an activator of God’s power that is resident in us. The size of your revelation is the size of your manifestation. 

The psalmist in one of his writings said “Oh Lord, how great are your works; Your thoughts’ are very deep” [Psalms 92:5]. By this, the psalmist reveals that there is a close relationship between the ”greatness of power” and the “depth of knowledge”. 

The level of spiritual knowledge made available to you, determines the level of spiritual power you’ll be able to manifest. Note that “spiritual knowledge” doesn’t give “spiritual power”, instead it gives you the ability to weld, use and handle and manifest the spiritual power which you already have. 

Spiritual power comes from the presence of the Holy Spirit, and you received this power when you receive the Holy Ghost [Acts 1:8] but without the right amount of spiritual knowledge and understanding, it cannot be useful. 

The Bible says “my people perish for lack of KNOWLEDGE” and not lack of power. It was based on this truth, that even when the Lord Jesus had promised His disciples “spiritual power”, He went on to teach them for forty more days after His resurrection. 

He knew that it takes spiritual knowledge to weld spiritual power into manifestation. The power of transformation comes through the revelation of God’s Word, it has the ability to shape and transform us into the glorious persons we are in Christ. 

The Bible says, 2Cor 3:18: “But we all, with open face beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord, are changed into the same image from glory to glory, even as by the Spirit of the Lord.” 

Open face there means looking into the Word by the spirit of revelation, because “glass” there is symbolically standing in front of the Word of God, we start seeing ourselves as defined by the Word and as we behold there what we see is the image of glory that. 

Glory is the essence of God, God is GLORY and He’s the very image we see because we were created in the image of God. As we behold this image of glory, we start to see who we really are and transformation starts taking place. From our opening verse, there’s something deep Apostle Paul said and that’s the word “changed”, from Greek text it’s the word “metamorphoo” where we get english word “metamorphosis” and it means a noticeable change in character, appearance, function or condition. 

All this can be done by beholding, fixing our gaze into the Word of God through the spirit of revelation and wisdom. 

As we allow our spirits to come face to face with the Word of God, we are then transformed and empowered to be and function as defined by the Word of God.

The essence of the revelation of God upon our lives names us. Just imagine a glorious life it is when you come face to face with the persons and the revelation of God’s Word. 

The Bible says, by His stripes we were healed, and like I said that the spirit man was placed in the body so that he may find expression in and through the body. So, that healing will touch your body and you start living your life in divine healthy. 

Understand that what happens in your prayers, fastings and any spiritual engagement and exercise is limited to the revelation that your spirit has captured from the Word. 

These are basic platforms to have your spirit exercised. In volume 2 of this book, I will explain further. Your growth is limited to the revelation of God’s Word you have. 

Your capacity is limited to it as well. Your manifestations ends where your revelation ends. 


THE VOICE OF YOUR SPIRIT. The human spirit has a voice.  We call that voice conscious. Sometimes we call it intuition, an inner voice, or guidance. The world calls it a hunch. But what it is, is your spirit speaking to you. Like I said that our spirits are in constant touch with God especially when we exercise them in God, God speaks to our spirits. 

Talking of the voice of your spirit, we are talking about God’s voice speaking to your spirit and since you are one with God, when your spirit speaks it is mostly God’s voice in your spirit. 

I have exercised my spirit to a point where if anything happens, I take time to relax and listen from within, that is to my spirit. 

I can tell you that I have never been wrong whenever I listen to my spirit, it is a sure guide because our spirits are one with the Holy Spirit who knows all things whatsoever. 

Many are so carnal and are taught or have trained themselves to move by the dictates of the flesh (senses) not knowing that there is a spirit in them. The human spirit is a spirit man. We cannot see him with the physical eyes, nor touch him with our physical hands. 

This is the man who has become a new creature in Christ [2 Cor. 5:17]. When a man is born again, his spirit becomes a new spirit. And that spirit has within himself the life and nature of God. 

As you give this newborn spirit the privilege of meditating on the Word of God, the Word becomes the source of its information. 

Your spirit will become strong and the inward voice of your conscience, educated in the spirit, will become a true guide. 

You can and should learn to instantly obey this voice, the voice of your spirit. If you are not accustomed to doing this, of course, you will not get there quickly. 

ONE day I was driving while chatting with someone over the phone, my spirit said “if you keep on talking to this person over the phone you are going to be involved in an accident”. I actually heard that voice of my spirit before going out. 

I instantly put my phone aside but later on I took my phone again and all of a sudden a lorry came from behind and hit my car. I quickly remembered what my spirit had said. 

Many times we are disadvantaged because we don’t obey the voice of our spirits. The Holy Spirit imparts a “knowing” into our spirit but we ignore it. Many have lost many things and some even their lives because they didn’t pay attention to their spirits. 

Listen, just as you did not begin school in the first grade one week and graduate from the 7th  grade the next week, your spirit will not be educated and trained overnight. 

However, if you will follow these points and practice them, after a while you will always know in your spirit what you should do. You will receive guidance. You’ll know the will of God the Father even in the minor details of life. Yield to it, for it is the Lord’s voice, the most sure guide that you can trust in this life. 

Chapter 4

The Impact Of The Holy Spirit 

On Our Spirits, Souls And Bodies



There is a relationship that the Holy Spirit, our spirits, souls and bodies shares. If we do not understand the ministry of the Holy Spirit towards us, we will live robbed lives. 

The Holy Spirit has a very deep and tremendous ministry towards us and we must take advantage of the same if we are to live the most glorious, victorious and impactful lives in the earth. The Lord Jesus in His earth days always pointed out that the works He did was being done by the Father which was in Him and we understand that He was pointing to the Holy Spirit. 

Today when we say Christ in us, we are saying He is in us in the person of the Holy Spirit. We cannot come to touch the realities of God without the Holy Spirit, the Lord Jesus called Him the Spirit of truth, meaning He the Holy Spirit is the Spirit of reality. 

I want you to understand that the Holy Spirit dwells in our spirits, we are one with Him. Our oneness with Him makes us the pride of heaven, the most powerful creatures God ever created both in heaven, earth and under the same. 

Every genuine transformation of the spirit, soul and body is by the ministry of the Word of God and the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is the custodian of the revelations, power, anointing, and the glory of God, when we talk of “open faces”, it is the Holy Spirit who unveils our spirits to see into the revelations of God which in turn brings us into the experience of transformation. 

He is an agent of transformation. He exposes us to the realities of the God-life. I will explain the impact of the Holy Spirit in all three dimensions of men interchangeably. 

The first ministry of the Holy Spirit is to our spirits that is to quicken or awaken us into the realities of God.  Like I said that we were designed to function from the spirit realm into the physical. 

The Holy Spirit joins Himself with our spirits and dwells in the quarters of our bodies making our bodies His temple. 

The Bible says, 1Cor 6:19: “What? Know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost which is in you, which ye have of God, and ye are not your own?” The Spirit in us and in possession of our spirits and bodies is the Holy Spirit. 

He joined Himself with our spirits, making our bodies His residential place on earth. God cannot do anything without the Holy Spirit, meaning having the Holy spirit in us makes us the operational centers of God on earth. 

He functions from within us and every genuine transformation starts from within us. Look at this, the Holy Spirit is not just the Spirit of God but He is God, and Him joining and making Himself one with our spirits makes us God’s and gods. 

The Bible says, Rom 8:9: “But you are not in the flesh, but in the Spirit, if it is so that the Spirit of God lives in you. Now if any man has not the Spirit of Christ, he is none of his." 

Let’s look into this verse, the Bible is telling us that by the reason of the Holy Spirit in us, we are now in spirit and the Holy Spirit now lives in us. Look at how deep this mystery is, the Holy Spirit is in God and in us as well bringing us into deeper fellowship with the Father. 

Look again, our verse is saying “we are now in the Spirit”, (I explained this in our Foreword) it’s not just pointing to the realities of us being in the spirit realm only, but it's also talking about us being in the realm, rank and class of and in God. 

The Holy Spirit has brought us into a place of communion with the Father. Now our verse goes on to say that, if anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ, he or she does not belong to Christ. 

Meaning the Holy Spirit is the DNA of God, you cannot be called a child of God without the Holy Spirit dwelling in your spirit, made one with your spirit. 

The reality of this is that, God cannot be God without the Holy Spirit because the Holy Spirit is God. Let me break it down for you here, the Holy Spirit is the essence of God. When we say, Holy Spirit, it’s not a name but a description. “Holy” pointing to the nature and “Spirit” pointing to the fact that the  entity is a Spirit not physical.

Remember John 4:24 that God is a Spirit. The Same God who is a Spirit is Holy, meaning as touching to the Holy Spirit we are talking about God Himself. The union of His dimensions is so deep and hard to explain through man’s words.

Imagine Jesus pointing to the Father in heaven and at one place pointing to the Father in Him. The very Holy Spirit is the Father in heaven as well as the Father in us. 

That’s what we mean when we talk of God being omnipresent, it’s a dimension of Himself found in the Holy Ghost. You remember the Lord saying that if any man loves me, I and the Father shall come and make our home in that man John 14:23. By virtue of being born again, we are now the home of God, His headquarters on earth. The impact of the Holy Spirit on our spirits is a deeper conversation and revelation of the celestials. 

Listen, by the reason of the Holy Spirit in us, joined with our spirits in oneness, all that is God is birthed in our spirits, if we can behold this mystery, we will start to function in higher realm of glory. 

Jesus said, when the Holy Spirit come, John 16:15: "All things that the Father has are mine: therefore said I, that He (The Holy Spirit) shall take of mine, and shall show it to you." 

The primary assignment of the Holy Spirit is to reveal Jesus to us. The Holy Spirit is our access to the Father through Christ. Eph 2:18: “For through him we both have access by one Spirit to the Father.” 

The ministry of the Holy Spirit is a very deep mystery and ministry, Apostle Paul said, 1Cor 2:10: “But God has revealed them to us by his Spirit: for the Spirit searches all things, yes, the deep things of God.” 

The Holy Spirit searches the deep things of God, now Him being the Spirit of revelation, there are things He reveals to your spirit and then there are times He carries your spirit along in God for a search, ushering us into bottomless dimensions of God’s wisdom and knowledge. 

He is the demystifyer of the mysteries of God. If you’ve been in contact with the Holy Spirit you’ll agree with me that there is a level of knowledge that the Holy Spirit communicates to our spirits through impartation, there are no enough words to truly articulate such depth of knowledge. 

Apostle Paul calls it, the knowledge which passes understand. As you continue yielding to the Holy Spirit, you’ll be amazed at the loads of glory your spirit will carry and be able to manifest in this life. If you can take advantage of this simple revelational knowledge, and apply it in your life, you’ll be amazed at the dimensions of God’s majesty you’ll start to see and experience.

If you’ve been joined and have become one with the Spirit that knows all things about God, then we are given that privilege to search and know the deeper things hidden in God’s heart moreover to know all things. 

The Bible says, Prov 3:20: “By his knowledge the depths are broken up, and the clouds drop down the dew.” And I’m saying to you that through this knowledge you’ll break into depths of God and there will be a release from the dimensions of glory. 

The Holy Spirit is our capacity and our ability, that’s why we are able to contain God in our spirits, it is because of the Holy Spirit. This also means, I can know God as much as the Holy Spirit knows God because I am one with Him and He is my capacity and my ability. 

My union with the Holy Spirit grants me access into the bottomless and boundless realms of God’s heart. The impact of the Holy Spirit upon our spirits is so deep and intimate. 

He has brought us into oneness with the Godhead, we have Him in His fullness, now we can talk like the Lord Jesus saying, he that has seen us has seen the Father because we are in the Father and He is in us. 

When Jesus said, I and the Father shall come and make our home in you, He wasn’t saying “as separate entities but He came to unify Himself with our spirits. 

On deeper conversation, this means there are no separate entities in your body, but there is God living in your body. We are so glued to each other that we cannot be separated. The Holy Spirit is the glory of God, and Him being made one with us makes us the glory of God as well. 

This is a deeper conversation of our oneness, it is so that we become all that He is in this world. 1Jn 4:17: “Herein is our love made perfect, that we may have boldness in the day of judgment: because as he is, so are we in this world.”

We are in this world as Christ Jesus is in the heavens, what a deeper revelation to meditate upon. It’s time we begin to see ourselves from this angle of God’s knowledge and revelation. 

Listen, an average believer is supposed to know God much more better than any of the old testament folk because of the privilege given to us that they did not have of having the Holy Spirit. 

He is dwelling in us 24/7, 365 days in a year and 366 days in a leap year. He came to abide in us forever. The words “abide forever” means, He came to make Himself one with us, meaning forever we will have unbroken and never ending fellowship with the Father. 

His Impact On Our Bodies



Let me remind you once again that, when the middle wall of separation was broken in the temple, God intended that the glory and holiness that was in the Holy of holies begin to flow from that place into the Holy place and unto the outer court. 

In this case, our spirits are like that place (holy of holies) because we are deeply holy as God is by virtue of our oneness with Him. 

All that God is, is defined in our spirits. Made holy with His holiness making us not less holy than God is. Holiness is the most distinct nature of God, the Bible says, Exo 15:11: “Who is like to you, O LORD, among the gods? Who is like you, glorious in holiness, fearful in praises, doing wonders?” 

This is what separates Him from any other to be in His own class, and because of this distinct essence, it is impossible for anything alien to this reality and  nature to fellowship with Him. 

So like I said, all that God is, is defined in our spirits because of our union, our oneness, this making us glorious in holiness as God is. 

So having established this reality, I said again that God placed our spirits in this body of the earth so that our spirits can find expression to the physical realm. 

Now lets look at this verse, Rom 8:11: “But if the Spirit of him that raised up Jesus from the dead dwell in you, he that raised up Christ from the dead shall also quicken your mortal bodies by his Spirit that dwells in you.” 

This is so deep and a human mind cannot fully understand this, now that the Holy Spirit is in us, the Bible is saying He is also giving life to our mortal bodies. 

The word “quicken” means “Zoopoieo” in original text, and it means “to give life, to cause to live, to invigorate that is to impart strength, vigor, or vitality and it also means to restore to life, to give  increase to life. 

Look here, before we explain deep about this, let’s look at the kind of life the Holy Spirit is imparting on our mortal or physical bodies, the Bible calls that life “Zoe” [John 10:10b]. 

Zoe is the life of God or God-life, it’s the life that is not subject to corruption, that is immune to sickness and diseases, this is the kind of life that the Bible confirms saying, we have passed from death unto life. Listen, because of this life “zoe” anything that cannot touch God is not supposed to touch you. Coming back to the impact of the Holy Spirit on our bodies, the Bible is saying to us that God quickens our bodies by His Spirit that dwells in us.

In this present day, the Holy Spirit has a ministry towards our bodies through our spirits. The very life of God is imparted into our spirits in this day, we must allow that undying and incorruptible life to flow from our spirits, touching our souls even our bodies. 

Listen, it doesn’t matter what is dead in your body, as you allow this life to flow, it restores to life broken tissues, cells and any dead thing that’s not functioning in your body. 

I personally had experiences where the power and the presence of the Holy Spirit can move in my blood. That’s the life of God moving in my body. Be awakened to the reality of this life, how can demons stay comfortably in your body causing you to be sick when you’ve yielded your body to the life of God and ministry of the Holy Spirit. 

Any weakness this life touches is turned into strength because this life of the Spirit invigorates us, it empowers us. This life we are talking about is not just called Zoe but it is Christ Himself. 

The Bible says, Col 3:4: "When Christ, who is our life…" Christ is the very life the Holy Spirit imparts on our bodies. This life can shape our characters, the more we yield to the Spirit of God is the more we see His life manifesting in our bodies. 

Yielding there simply means walking in total surrender to the Holy Spirit and in the consciousness of this life or to surrender yourself to what has occurred in your spirit, let it break from your spirit into your body and influence everything around you. Just imagine for a moment Apostle Peter impacted by the Holy Spirit so deep that even his shadow started performing miracles and healing. 

Listen, not everything is a gift in the kingdom. Some manifestation are a product of the impact of the Holy Spirit upon our spirits, souls and bodies. 

This is what happens when you fully sink into Him. He’s an ocean and bottomless realm of glory, power, and all that God is. 

==================================================

END OF THE SPIRIT MAN BOOK

==================================================

BOOK: WHO AM I?

AUTHOR: SHEMMY GAVIYAO

CATEGORY:

Identity In Christ | New Creation | Spiritual Identity | Purpose In God


SOURCE MATERIAL:

Chapter 1



IDENTITY



The first thing God does whenever He finds a person, He seeks to change his or her identity. The mysteries of life are hidden in our identities. It is highly imperative that every believer become intimately glued to their identity in Christ Jesus. 

The Bible says in 1 John 4:4 ; Ye are of God, little children… I want us to look at the meaning of the word ‘of’ in that verse, notice that it is a possessive term, it carries the place of origin. 

It means that the very make up of God is what you carry in the inside of you. We were walking at a certain place where we once were not because of the lust of this world but then because of the sacrifice of Christ Jesus, we were separated and now John writes and says that you are ‘of’ God, not you are ‘for’ God. 

There is a big difference between a person who is “of someone” and someone who is “of someone.” Everything that God carries inside of him is what you carry. That is why when he looks at you he says, ‘you are of me.’ 

Our identity is now defined in Christ, we cannot know ourselves until we understand the gospel of Christ through the spirit of revelation and wisdom. The greatest fear of the devil is not praying and fasting people or church attenders but the people who knows who they are.

 The gospel of Jesus Christ is the very definition of our being. Every believer who lives in ignorance of who they are suffers unnecessarily.  The Bible reveals a very deep mystery of our identity in the book of Acts 17:28: "For in him we LIVE, and MOVE, and have our BEING; as certain also of your own poets have said, For we are also his offspring." 

Apostle Paul here detailed something very deep, the last part is saying we are God’s offspring, now this word “offspring” means “genos” in Greek text from which we take the words “genes” in English language. 

Since we carry the genes of God in us, we can easily understand now that we cannot define ourselves outside God. Our genetic patterns can be traced back to God and we can still find ourselves in God as much as God can be found in us since we have same genes. 

Any Christian who tries to define himself or herself outside of God is deceived, lost and is spiritually blind. Until you find yourself in God, you are still lost in every way. Our “being” is in God, this means that every virtue that defines the Godhead is now embedded in us. 

The very essence of God is in us through Christ Jesus, we have in us the very thing that defines God to be God defining. So if our being is in God, or if our being is God, this makes us not less than God. Listen and understand, our being is not just in God but our being is God. 

This is what it means to be a new creature, the mystery that the prophets of the old and the angels desired to look into, God making Himself one with men is now revealed, When the Lord walked on earth, the Bible says:

Colossians 2:9-10 For he is the complete fullness of deity living in human form. And our own completeness is now found in him. We are completely filled with God as Christ’s fullness overflows within us. He is the Head of every kingdom and authority in the universe! Look carefully, as Jesus was and is, the complete fullness of deity or Godhead, so are we also filled with God as Christ’s fullness overflows within us. 

Look here, what fills Christ to the fullness is the Godhead and the very Christ fills us completely to the overflows from within us. This simply means that we are the complete fullness of God in human form. 

Listen, the real essence of knowing Christ is knowing yourself for He is the place where we are defined. Knowing God is knowing you, discovering God is discovering you. Every revelation of God names us. 

The book of Daniel says, the people that knows their God shall be strong and they shall do exploits. The question is, what is it about knowing God that causes us to be great and do exploits? Well, the mystery is, when we journey to know God, we find who we are and each layer revelation of God defines certain possibilities, this is why knowing Him empowers us to do exploits. 

 The essence of salvation is not just about going to heaven but God seeking to be identified with His creation, that is new creation in Christ Jesus. Christ became one with us in sin that we might become one with Him in righteousness.

 He became as we were, to the end that we might be as He is now. The Bible says, 1Jn 4:17: “Herein is our love made perfect, that we may have boldness in the day of judgment: BECAUSE as he is, so are we in this world.” 

Look here, not that we shall be like Him but we are already like Him in this world. A Christian who sings “to be like Jesus, all I want is to be like Him” is spiritually blind and doesn’t have the right understanding of who he is. This was an attempt that caused Adam and Eve to fall into sin, they wanted to be what God had already made them. 

They were in ignorance of their identity in God. God from the very beginning, He wanted to be one with us, this was the reason why He created men in His image and after His likeness. 

His very intent was to look down on earth and able to see Himself on earth made one with His creation. The new creation embodies the Godhead. 


IN CHRIST



You cannot be effective in your walk with God until you understand your position and identity in God. Many people are still confused about their position and identity as believers and it’s important you understand that the devil thrives on people’s ignorance, he feeds on people’s ignorance. 

We  ought  to  know  what  we  are  and  what we have. God in one place says, “my people are destroyed because they lack knowledge”. God still recognize them as “His people”, identified together with Him yet they are perishing because they are lacking knowledge. 

I want you to understand what it means to be in Christ. To be in Christ is to be free from the devil, now this freedom doesn’t mean that the devil will not try to attack you but it means “his best efforts will still fail and his best efforts are conquered”.

 To be in Christ is to be made one with Him, is to be identified together with Christ and being an embodiment of the Godhead. To be in Christ is to be freed from the devils, sin, corruption, sicknesses and diseases. To be in Christ means to have victory and mastery over the devil and all his cohorts. 

To be in Christ is to be positioned in and for victory. Bible says, Col 1:13: “Who has delivered us from the power of darkness, and has translated us into the kingdom of his dear Son:” 

This deliverance was confirmed the day you became born again, it's not something that will happen in the future but something that already happened, He is not delivering us but He already delivered us. 

I want you to look at the word “power” used in that verse, it actually reads “authority” instead of “power” because in Greek text it says “exosia” which is the word for authority. Authority is a power to enforce rules and orders. Now it means we can no longer have ourselves submitting under the order and dominion of the devil because Satan does not have authority over a new man in Christ. 

A new man in Christ is superior to the devil because a new man is identified together with God. Understand that our deliverance is from the dominion of darkness, meaning darkness can no longer dominate us. 

Look here, we were delivered from the dominion of darkness and translated (delivered into or transferred into) the kingdom of His dear son. The word “kingdom” means royal power, kingship, dominion, realm. 

So we were delivered from the authority of darkness into the authority of Christ. This is what makes us superior to the devil, the only reason why the devil has authority over those not born again, is because they live in his realm or domain. They live in the place where he rules and organize things but a new creation in Christ lives in the domain of Christ. That’s what it means to be in Christ. It means the power that brought creation into being now resides in you. 

Listen, you are not just in the place called Christ but you are also identified with Christ. The whole message in this book is hinged on this subject, “In Christ”. That’s where we are defined. 



THE AMAZING DRAMA



One of the most amazing drama is what Jesus did for us and the whole world. We have heard of the Gospel of substitution, the most amazing message of God’s love towards humanity. However, there’s something I truly want us to understand that is very deep on substitution and that is to understand that Jesus did for us what we could never do for ourselves. I mean, even if we were to be killed for our sins, that was never going to guarantee salvation. 

In this case, we can say Jesus substituted Himself for us, and yet in that substitutionary work, He carried us along because He represented us. The Bible says, 2Cor 5:14: “For the love of Christ constrains us; because we thus judge, that if one died for all, then were all dead:”  

Look here, since His death was for the whole world, so when Jesus died, the whole world died with Him. I want you to understand that every human being on earth whether born again or not, died with Christ when He died but not every one is alive in and with Christ.

 This other side is only possible when a person gets born again. So in other words, the full work of redemption or deliverance is complete when we become one with Him in resurrection not only in death. 

Take it this way, He died for the sins of the whole world, if it is true that He died for the whole world then it means everyone in the world is forgiven but this is incomplete until man receive Christ. 

Christ identified Himself with everyone in the world in His death, but each and everyone of us must now make and take a deliberate or intentional choice in identifying ourselves with Him in  resurrection. 

We died  with  Christ.  We  were  raised  together  with Him.  So  the  old  man,  the  sin  nature  that  was  a partaker  of  spiritual  death,  died  with  Christ.

  When we accepted  Jesus  Christ  as  our  Savior  by  confessing  Him as  our  Lord,  we  become  a  New  Creation,  and  that  old  man died on the cross  and  the new man in Christ which is created in the image and likeness of God takes  His  place in us. The death of Jesus deals with the old man of sin and the resurrection put on the new man in Christ in view. 

Salvation is when a new man from above entered you. The old man had to die to give way to the second. It is why the Bible says in 1 Corinthians 15:46 that howbeit that was not first which is spiritual, but that which is natural; and afterward that which is spiritual. 

Before you were born again, you were a natural man. The Bible goes on to say in the same chapter of 1Cor 15:47: "The first man is of the earth, earthy; the second man is the Lord from heaven." 

The first man is Adam and the second man is Jesus Christ and since you are now born again, you are the lord from heaven. The Bible calls Jesus the Lord of lords, and we happen to be the lords in plural. You come with the spirit of lordship. Except a man be born from above, that man cannot experience this realm because this realm is supposed to be an experience. Salvation is supposed to be an experience.  

You are from above. The Lord having a discussion with Nicodemus said two things that is unless you be born again you cannot SEE, AND ENTER into the kingdom of God. You’re first granted access into the kingdom then you’re given sight which draws you into the experiences. 

Now coming back, I called it amazing drama because of what Jesus did in this work of substitution, He identified Himself together with us in His death, went to hell and ultimately defeated the devil for us and then resurrected for us as a sign that He ultimately defeated the devil. 

Whatever He did for us, we were also participating in and with Him through the law of substitution and identification. For example, If one person competing in any sport standing for a nation wins a competition, the whole nation has won and if he or she looses then the whole nation has lost. 

So when Jesus defeated the devil and his cohorts, disarming the principalities and powers and triumphing over them, we were also participating in that war in and through Christ Jesus, we participated with Him. 

Like the Levites that paid tithe yet they were not present physically but the Bible says, Heb 7:9-10: “And as I may so say, Levi also, who receives tithes, paid tithes in Abraham. For he was yet in the loins of his father, when Melchisedec met him.” 

That’s one of the reason he left us His Name on earth, it’s not only given to defeat the devil but serves as a reminder to the devils that we already defeated them in Jesus Christ through the law of substitution and identification. Listen, this is what Apostle Paul is saying by being planted or likened together in His death [Rom 6:5].

 Jesus came on earth with a human body to make Himself one with humanity as our representative, and I’m saying that all that was done in and through His death, we also participated in and through Him through the law of substitution. 

When He defeated the devils, demons, sicknesses and diseases, we also defeated all these things. Let me show you a very deep mystery revealed, the Bible says 2Cor 4:4: “In whom the god(satan) of this world has blinded the minds of them which believe not, lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, who is the image of God, should shine to them.” 

Look here, the devil has blinded the unbelievers from seeing the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, because the devil knows exactly what this gospel of Christ mean, the devil knows that according to the law of substitution and identification, all the people in the world defeated him through the death of Jesus Christ, because in His death He carried everyone. 

Look again at that verse, Apostle Paul used the word “lest”, and this word means “for the fear that…” So the greatest fear of the devil is to see people having the light of the glorious gospel shinning on them because he knows that that will be the end of his reign over those people. 

Listen, if Jesus through death and resurrection defeated the devils and sicknesses then everyone in the world defeated the devil through Jesus, we now simply need to identify ourselves with Him through new birth. 

The deception of the devil is to blind man from the fact that he is defeated then start to show himself strong which is an act of deception still. Once the glorious light of the gospel shines on people, they are awakened to another life, the resurrection side of this story. This is a very deep mystery revealed in the gospel. 

I’m calling it a mystery because it is still hidden from many but revealed to some, meaning that that which is a mystery to some, it’s the revealed truth. I want this to sink deep into you, that’s why I’m placing great emphasis on this. 

All the things that Jesus did on the Cross, He was doing them for the whole world, so when He died on the Cross, the whole world died but remember what His death means, it stands for victory over the devils, the world, and sicknesses. 

The Bible says, Col 2:14-15: “Blotting out the handwriting of ordinances that was against us, which was contrary to us, and took it out of the way, nailing it to his cross; And having spoiled principalities and powers, he made a show of them openly, triumphing over them in it.” Look carefully here that the removal of the handwriting that was against us, contrary to us was done on the Cross by Christ. 

The word “us” is not just pointing to the Christian world only because the work on the Cross was and is for the whole world. Meaning to say that even the people in the world, those not born again have the victory over the handwriting of the ordinances, contrary to them because of what Jesus did on the cross. 

But for that to become everyone’s reality, people must be born again. Born into the realm where the devils are defeated ultimately that is in Christ. 

After the Lord was done rubbing off all the things that were contrary to us, He then went on to strip the devils off of the authority they had that’s according to verse 15 of our opening verses. Part of the verse is saying “he made a show of them openly” meaning Jesus shamed the devils openly. This is why he blinds people, he is hiding his shame by preventing or blinding people’s minds from seeing the glorious light of the gospel. 

The  day the Lord Jesus died on the Cross and resurrected, He defeated death, the powers of darkness, and every work of the enemy through His blood on the Cross. 

This is why I said even according to the Word that the greatest fear of the devil is seeing people having the glorious light(revelation) of the gospel shinning on them because through the gospel, we clearly see the position of the devil, we see how defeated he is and our victory over him.

 Listen, you’ve got to understand the kind of the devil we are dealing with here. The reality is, Jesus dethroned the devils, all these principalities and powers are dethroned rulers. Imagine it this way, a person who was once a president, ruling over a nation, feared by all men because he or she moved with national army before but due to election, that man is dethroned, meaning he is removed from the position of governmental power, he no longer holds the position of authority. 

You know for sure that you cannot be afraid of that person anymore because he’s now dethroned. This is what happened when Jesus dethroned the devils, principalities and powers. He dethroned the devil and enthroned us that who has accepted and believed in His name. 

The name of Jesus is a rank and a throne on which we function in, by and with. Those not born again are already freed by the Cross, but they can only step into this reality when the glorious light of the gospel shines on them, this is why we must preach the gospel of Christ. Look here, the Bible has said that the devil has blinded the minds of the people that are not born again. 

The reason for that is because that reality is in them also, you cannot be blinded from something that is not within your reach, the old man in them was defeated on the cross. 

The devil doesn’t want them to see what was done for them in and through Jesus Christ on the Cross where He became the representative of everyone in the world. The cross and our position in Christ testifies that we are eternally redeemed and  satan’s  dominion  over  us  is ended.

  He  no  longer  reigns  over  us. We conquered him in and through Christ. Not  only  are  we  redeemed,  but  the  moment  we  came into  Christ we  became  satan’s  masters. 

He dethroned principalities and powers and enthroned us kings and rulers, the Bible says, Rom 5:17: “For if by one man’s offense death reigned by one; much more they which receive abundance of grace and of the gift of righteousness SHALL REIGN in life by one, Jesus Christ. )” 

The devil reigned through Adam but Jesus came and ended his reign, now we reign by Christ Jesus. 

The “gods”



Ps 82:6-7: “I have said, You are gods; and all of you are children of the most High. But you shall die like men, and fall like one of the princes.”  Look carefully, the word “men” there in Hebrew text is translated “adam”, in other words, this verse in original language since old testament was written in Hebrew, it reads, “But you shall die like Adam…” At this point let’s look at the first man Adam who lived in ignorance of his identity and lost legality over the earth realm. 

God had created him a god in this realm but ended up in misery because he didn’t yield himself to his identity. Even though Adam was a god, he ended like a men, He drastically failed. 

Our opening verse goes on to say, “and fall like one of the princes”. This prophetically points to something deeper than just the princes of the people but fallen angels. 

The Bible tells us that angels or rather some angels are princes, that according to 1Cor 2:6: “However, we speak wisdom among them that are perfect: yet not the wisdom of this world, nor of the PRINCES OF THIS WORLD, that come to nothing:” Another word used for princes in the Bible is principalities. 

Let’s take Lucifer for example, he occupied a princely rank in the angelic class, that was his rank and identity but later on, he desired to stretch beyond his identity and rank, he wanted to be like God. 

The Bible says Isa 14:12: “How are you FALLEN from heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning! How are you cut down to the ground, which did weaken the nations!” In this particular verse, we are having a prince falling. 

Remember I’m saying this for us to understand on a deeper ground what Psalms 82:7 is saying about falling as one of the princes. 

In this Psalms we are being taught that when we walk in ignorance of ourselves or identity, we die like men and fall like one of the princes. Lucifer wanted to ascend above the clouds and become like the most High when he was just an angel or just a prince. Above the clouds there means, Lucifer wanted to be the ultimate glory, power and authority, that’s why he later said, and I will be like the most High. 

Listen, disaster comes when we walk in ignorance of who we are, and the devil knows this that’s why he is working tirelessly day by day in confusing believers of their inheritance and true positioning in God thereby holding many under bondage in his armpits. 

The greatest fear of the devil is in dealing with people that knows who they are especially in Christ. The devil has confused many about their identity in God. 

That is why we have many teachings in the Church that teaches us about generational curses, and through such teachings we are taught about the limitations placed on us through our physical lineage or bloodline. So such teachings opens the eyes and ears of the people to the advantage that devils have over them even though they are born again.

 Some teachings have actually taken people into deeper bondage. Many Christians are made to believe that the devil is to larger extent greater and bigger than they are. 

Many now finds it difficult to believe that they are actually stronger and bigger than the devil because of the references they give from the teachings they received and their personal experiences. 

I have always said that in Africa we have made the devil bigger in our minds and lives than he really is. 

The book of Psalms 82:5 has said to us that “they know not, neither will they understand, they walk on in darkness, all the foundations are out of course”. The Bible here is talking about gods or the offsprings of God the most High who are walking in ignorance of their true identity. Eagles that are living like chicken. 

Listen, you are more than a speck of the dust or part of the universe. You have in you the fullness of the Godhead, He has set His realm in your spirit, that’s the kingdom of God in your spirit. 

You are a son of God with the very life and DNA of God in you. Meaning you are "god" experiencing the life of God through human form. By reason of our new identity in God, every virtue that defines the Godhead is now embedded in us, setting us apart. 

He imparted into us through birth His very essence and nature, that is His holiness to consecrate, distinguish and align us to be His own, and serve Him effectively as we ought. 

God ordained every believer to walk in the light of His revelation. His Word carries redemptive power, guiding us into His perfect will. We are called to live in the brilliance of His light, a light that illuminates our path and leads us into the fullness of His purpose. 

You are not separate from God but you are one with God, sharing the same life, nature, power, and more. We are more than created but are begotten of God, His offspring and kindred. We are the God-kind, bearing the image of God which is Christ. 

We are the visible expression and manifestation of the Godhead on earth. This is deep for many to take in. Like I said that we are not just created beings but we are begotten of God, we are gods and the sons of the most High God. 

We come from God and we are in Him, He’s our abiding place and we are His abiding place. It matters how you see, think and talk of yourself. This is why revelation must be in us, revelation changes our posture, you begin to understand that to be seated in Christ means to share in His glory, authority, victory, and rest.

His Righteousness



One great man of God once defined righteousness as the ability to stand in the presence of God. This is a wonderful revelation, we can now stand in God’s presence without fear, but with all boldness knowing that He is our Father.

 Another beautiful revelation to put there is that, righteousness is the ability to stand in God’s presence without a sense of inferiority, here it means that righteousness has brought us into the God-class. 

Listen, you cannot stand before God with and in all boldness then you stand before the devils struck with fear. The Bible says in, Rom 5:17: “For if by one man’s offense death reigned by one; much more they which receive abundance of grace and of the gift of righteousness shall reign in life by one, Jesus Christ. )” 

Look here, receiving of the abundance of grace, and of the gift of righteousness positioned us to the place of reigning by Christ. Righteousness is the nature and the essence of God, it’s what defines God and we are made exactly what defines God and this makes us not less than God, through His life, He has brought us to His level. 

The Bible says, 2Cor 5:21: “For he has made him to be sin for us, who knew no sin; that we might be made the righteousness of God in him.” Look here, we are made the righteousness of God. 

So now we can understand what Apostle Paul is saying from Romans 5:17, God seeks to make us what we receive from Him. So we received grace and righteousness so that we become it. The word “righteousness” is the word “Dikaiosune” where we have the word “Dikaios” meaning “righteous”. 

Now the Bible says, 1Jn 2:29: “If you know that he is righteous… God is righteous, that’s what and who He is, His very nature and the Bible is telling us that we are His righteousness. 

This simply means that we are made the  expression of His righteousness. God wants us to demonstrate how righteousness He is. Remember it is by it that we reign, in other words, righteousness has made us victors in and through Jesus Christ. 

Since we are dealing with identity, it’s important to understand that God in His wisdom knows that we become as a result of who we are, meaning He made us victors in order that we always win in every battle. To a believer, victory is not something that happens after battle but it’s their identity in Christ. The Bible says, 1Jn 5:4: "For whatever is born of God overcomes the world: and this is the victory that overcomes the world, even our faith."

Look carefully, we overcome as a result of new birth. The moment you understand this, you’ll start praying in the higher realms. Like I said, revelation changes your posture. 

 Through grace and righteousness, we are made victors to reign over circumstances and devils. Righteousness is not just the ability to stand in God’s presence, great revelation as it is. 

Righteousness is being made a god, made in the similitude of God the most High. We are His offsprings. Moreover God is our righteousness. David in Psalms 4:1 called God His righteousness. This is why I said, righteousness is not just the ability to stand before God without a sense of inferiority but is a state of being “God”. 



Holiness



Listen here, we said that righteousness is the nature and the essence of God. So here we talk of holiness, which is one of the most distinct nature of God, angels stands to worship God in His holiness and praising His holiness. 

The Bible says, Exo 15:11: “Who is like to you, O LORD, among the gods? Who is like you, glorious in holiness, fearful in praises, doing wonders?” God is glorious in holiness and here Moses is asking, who is like you, O Lord, among the gods?. 

Listen, Moses might have not found any like God, glorious in holiness because he had not seen the “New Creation”. I mean, we are glorious in holiness as His offspring because of new birth, God imparted into us all that He is into our spirits, the scripture says, he that is joined to the Lord is one Spirit [1Cor 6:17]. 

The devil cannot tell us from God, we are one and deeply glued to each other never to be separated. You may say, but ah the Bible says God will not share His glory with any, that’s according to Isa 42:8. 

The Bible says “I am the LORD: that is my name: and my glory will I not give to another, neither my praise to graven images.” Look carefully here, God was talking about created things like idols, that’s why He mentioned graven images.

 That’s the mistake Lucifer made, he wanted to become like God yet he didn’t bear the image of God, he did not have a share in this level of glory.

 I want us to understand that we are more than created but we are begotten. It is the Father’s pleasure to share His glory with His children. That’s the reason why Jesus came to die for us. To be born again is to receive an invitation to glory. 

The Bible says, Heb 2:10: “For it became him, for whom are all things, and by whom are all things, IN BRINGING MANY SONS TO GLORY, to make the captain of their salvation perfect through sufferings.” Salvation is an invitation to glory. 

Now looking at our topic, we are made holy by the holiness of God, that’s why the Bible says, be holy as I am holy. It is possible because God said it, and we become holy as He is by receiving Him into us. 

The angel of the Lord stepped on earth, and caused a tree to catch the flames of fire without burning, while Moses approaching that sight, the angel of the Lord told him to remove his sandals because the place is holy. Listen, the presence of God in that ground, made the ground holy as God is. By this I mean, God came into us and we cannot be less holy than He is. 

The scriptures tells us that we are God’s temple and that temple is holy. The temple is the habitation of God not just a place of worshiping God. Now God resides in our spirits and we are one with Him through that union, we are as holy as He is. 

If we are made holy by His holiness which is said to be glorious in holiness, this makes us not less than that. We are glorious in holiness just like God is glorious in holiness. When you understand this, living a holy life becomes easy. 

The Bible says, 1Jn 2:29: "...you know that every one that does righteousness is born of him." In this case, holiness is the outflow of His righteousness in us. This is the combination of these two. When we yield to the nature of God in us, it influences our behavior and actions, that’s what is being called doing righteousness. 

It’s not the works we try to do with physical efforts but the inner working of His holiness from within us flowing outside. No matter the good works that the people of the world do, their works can never be called “righteous works” until this nature is first planted inside. 

So holiness is the inner working of divine essence and influence reflecting on the outside which in turn births righteous works. This holy nature of God has brought us into the place of fellowship with God, anything alien to this nature of God cannot sustain fellowship with God. 

Holiness is what separates God to be in His own distinct class. The new creation in Christ is positioned to be in God’s class. Holy means to be separated and sanctified. The Bible says of us in, Eph 4:24: "And that you put on the new man, which after God is created in righteousness and true holiness." We are created in righteousness and true holiness, that’s the new men in Christ. As a seed produces after it’s own kind, so God gives birth after His own kind. 

The new creation in Christ looks exactly like God in righteousness and true holiness. We possess and are possessed by the life of God, His nature and everything that defines God. 

Chapter 2

His Blood



The Bible says in [Rev 5:9b]: “…for you were slain, and have redeemed us to God by your blood out of every kindred, and tongue, and people, and nation;”  The blood of the Lord Jesus was the currency God used to redeem us, the word redeem means “to recover ownership of something by paying a sum, it means to liberate  by payment of a ransom, to clear release from debt or blame, to expiate”. Through redemption, God recovered ownership of us. 

The Bible says in 1Pet 2:10: “Which in time past were not a people, but are now the people of God: which had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy.” This is the work of redemption. 

The purpose of redemption was also to liberate us and to clear release from debt or from blame that held us in the armpits of he devil, sin and the world and God did this by paying a ransom which is His Son Jesus Christ. 

I want you to understand that God did not allow sin to go unpunished. The work of redemption demands that  God needed to first justify Himself in order to  become the justifier, the Bible then says, Rom 3:26: “To declare, I say, at this time his righteousness: that he might be just, and the justifier of him which believes in Jesus.” 

In my book called Foundational Class, I wrote, Let’s look at the cross to bring balance. God poured His wrath on Jesus on the Cross, so every wrath God had because of the existence of sin He poured it on Jesus. 

So everyone who comes to believe in Jesus Christ is safe because Jesus became your substitute. The wrath that was meant for you was poured on Jesus and He was judged. 

So when God forgives and justifies a sinner, it means God is first justified for justifying that person because He didn’t let go of the sinner but actually killed the sinner in Jesus. 

It is therefore right for God to give freely the remission of sins and justification to the sinner. So the prize of every means past, present, future sin was paid in Jesus and everyone who comes to Jesus receives the forgiveness of sins and is justified. 

[1 Peter  2:24] Who his own self bare our sins in his own body on the tree, that we, being dead to sins, should live unto righteousness: by whose stripes ye were healed. 

The cross is where every sin was put and it’s a place where every judgement of sin was put. So if our faith is on Jesus who was on the Cross, suddenly we were judged in Him. 

This is what Paul meant when He said “I am crucified with Christ” and in another place he tells us to “reckon ourselves to be dead together with Jesus”.

 This simply means we are completely forgiven and justified in Christ never to be found under sin and it’s penalty anymore. The blood of Jesus is on the altar of God as a testimony. When any man believes and receives Jesus, that person receives the testimony of the blood of Jesus. 

[Heb 9:14] How much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without spot to God, purge your conscience from dead works to serve the living God?

 Over and over the blood of Christ is purging our conscience from dead works to serve the living God. The blood of Christ testifies that we are at peace with God and have been reconciled. 

God killed Himself for me to have the forgiveness of sin and justified, by that I mean He allowed Himself to die for me. This is the revelation of God’s greatest love.

 The blood of Abel cried for revenge but the blood of Jesus cries for forgiveness which is called a speaking of better things. The wrath of God is atoned by the blood of Jesus Christ. [Rom 6:-21 ] What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin, that grace may abound? God forbid. How shall we, that are dead to sin, live any longer therein? 

We are freed from the grip that held us in the bondage of sin now to live for God. This is the balance, when we do something wrong, we just look at the forgiveness of sins given to us. 

The forgiveness of sins in Christ enables us to continue walking in the light of our freedom provided in the Christ by the power of the eternal Spirit. 

Now we walk reckoning ourselves to be dead indeed unto sin but alive unto God through our Lord Jesus Christ. By the power of the Spirit of God we live above sin. The punishment that will come upon those that are not born again will be a punishment of refusing to accept the forgiveness of sins. 

Now from our first verse we are taught that not only are we redeemed from sin and devils but we are also redeemed out of every kindred, tongue, people and nation. The blood of Jesus bought us from many things according to Revelation 5:9.

 You can now know for sure that even things called generational curses cannot affect your life because you are also redeemed out of every kindred or tribe to  become a God-kind. 

God also redeemed us out of every tongue, this is why God gave us His own tongue, by this I don’t just mean speaking of tongues but also mean His Word, now we can talk like God, we don’t speak as fallen people. 

The power of this redemption is also reflecting in our speech. The Bible says, Heb 13:5-6: “Let your conversation be without covetousness; and be content with such things as you have: for he has said, I will never leave you, nor forsake you. So that we may boldly say, The Lord is my helper, and I will not fear what man shall do to me.” 

Look here, with all boldness we can now speak God’s words. It’s important you understand that there is a language for the redeemed. Psalms 107:2 says, let the redeemed of the Lord say so… This shows that there is a language for the redeemed. 

It’s also important that you understand that the word tongue also points to the language or dialect used by a particular people distinct from that of other nations. 

This means that a believer in Christ is not supposed to be a slave to any because of the work of redemption in Christ. He also redeemed us out of people, well there are many of God’s children whose lives are caged in the thoughts and confessions of people, they are slaves of people. 

To some it is that thing that was said to them at barber shop or at the saloon, they have become slaves of men. Apostle Paul spoke of his liberty in the book of 1Cor 4:3: "But with me it is a very small thing that I should be judged of you, or of man's judgment: yes, I judge not my own self."

 Look at the liberty Paul now has in Christ, he’s now living above man’s opinion and judgement. Listen, the new creation in Christ is redeemed from all these things. 

Even from every nation, this simply means God no longer expects me to live as an America, African, Asian, European but expects me to live as a son of the Kingdom influenced by the Kingdom culture. 

This is the law of identification, the purpose of redemption is to bring us to the place where we are identical and identified together with the Christ. 

The Bible says in Heb  9:11-12.  “But  Christ  having  come  a  high  priest  of  the  good things  to  come,  through  the  greater  and  more  perfect  tabernacle  not  made  with  hands,  that is  to  say,  not  of  this  creation,  nor  yet  with  the  blood  of  goats  and  calves,  but  with  His  own blood entered in once for all into the holy place, having obtained eternal Redemption.” 

As  the  High  Priest,  He  took  His  own  blood  and  carried  it  up  to  the  heavenly holy of holies and there presented it before God. The blood was accepted, and that blood of Jesus is a seal is upon the document of our redemption. 

The  blood  of  Jesus  Christ,  God’s  Son  is  the  eternal  witness  of  His  finished  work  for  us,  of  our legal right to eternal life and freedom, and sonship with all its privileges. 

On the basis  of  that  blood,  we  are  more  than  conquerors. Satan  has  no  dominion  over  us.  His  dominion  is  utterly  broken.   The token of that victory is continually before the Father which is the blood of Jesus our Lord.

 The Bible says in Rev 12:11  ‘’And  they  overcame  him  because  of  the  blood  of  the  Lamb  and  because  of the word of their testimony. 

I want you to understand that this verse is not talking about you speaking the blood of Jesus like many people do which is not wrong though. 

They say “I sprinkle the blood of Jesus against the devil and sickness”, no here the Bible is talking about the work of redemption that was done through the blood of the lamb. 

That is why this verse is not saying “they overcame by confessing the blood of the lamb”. The blood of the lamb and the word of their testimony are put separate yet intimately joined.

 What I mean is, since you are redeemed by the blood which is already victory over the devil, sin and every sickness and disease, John added the word of their testimony because there is a language the redeemed must speak which is based on the revelation of their redemption. 

My confessions are supposed now to be rooted in the revelation of His death, burial and resurrection. We talk victory because through the blood of the lamb, we overcame every host of darkness.

And through His blood we are redeemed out of every kindred, tongue, people and nation. We now function above all these things because of the blood of Jesus. What a glorious victory we have.

Let’s look again at this verse for more clarity, John used the word “AND” between the blood of the Lamb and the words of their testimony, this word means “two elements must be taken together or in addition to each other”. So now we can easily understand what these people were speaking, they were speaking words based or rooted in the revelation of their redemption which was made possible by the blood. 

You may ask, but man of God, are you saying we must not speak the blood? Yes that’s what I mean because what the blood needed to do was already done, there is nothing new that you can attempt to do with the blood of the lamb that was not done already. 

That’s what we call the finished works of Christ. All that you need now to have is the revelation of redemption made possible by the blood of Jesus and align your consciousness and confession in the same way. 

Listen, you have a legal right to the (rank) name of Jesus that casts out demons and breaks satan’s power which is already broken after all. It’s sad to know that many are still living their lives according to the revelation of their family blood, listen you are redeemed from the revelation and experiences of the human blood into the revelation and the experience of the blood of the lamb which is Christ’s blood.

 This ushers us into another ladder of the revelation of our identity in Christ. 

Chapter 3



Christ Sat Down



Now this is the peak level of our identity and the revelation of our redemption in and through Jesus Christ. After Jesus on the cross had said, “it is finished”, His final destination was not the cross but the throne. 

The Bible says that it is at the right hand of the Father. What this simply mean is, the Father handed over His authority to the Son, He is given now the legal right to host the authority of the Father and that together with the body of believers. 

The Bible says in Eph  2:6  “And  raised  up  with  Him, and  made  us  to  sit  with  Him  in  the  heavenly  places,  in  Christ  Jesus.’’  This  was  the  highest honor that God had ever conferred upon man that man sits on God’s throne. 

Together with Christ, we now host God’s authority and glory. Jesus  became  a  man,  identified  Himself  with  the  humanity,  delivered  the  human  race from  the  authority  of  satan,  and  carried  His  blood  into  the  Holy  of  Holies  to  make  the eternal redemption possible. 

Then He sat  down at  the  right  hand  of God the Father  on  High.  We  have  a  man Jesus Christ seated  at  God’s right  hand.  He  is  our  representative.  He  is  there  to  represent  us.  This  is  the  crowning  event in  redemption,  a  man  seated  at  God’s  right  hand,  and  that  man  is  the  head  of  the  new  body, the Church.

 So since Jesus is the head and is said to have seated at the right hand of God, and we also as the Church are members in particular of the body on which Christ is the head. Listen here, the head does not sit but the body does. 

We can now better understand what it means to have Christ seated at the right of God, no wonder the Bible says we are together with Christ on that throne. Throne is a symbol of authority, power, glory, rank and influence. 

I want you to see something very deep here, the Bible says Ps 11:4: "The LORD is in his holy temple, the LORD's throne is in heaven…” Now the Bible tells us that we are His holy temple [1Cor 3:16-17]. So we can understand what David is saying, The Lord is in us as new creatures, and the verse goes on to say that the Lord’s throne is in heaven. Look here, the Bible says we are seated with Christ in heavenly places, and here we already have an understanding that that’s where the Lord’s throne is. 

In other words we are seated on the Lord’s throne in the heavenly places. Notice that they are called heavenly places not place, this means that in every sphere, realm and layer of the heaven(spiritual world), we have authority. 

The throne on which we are seated together with Christ is the ultimate throne, it rules above all. Understand that the words “heavenly places” are not just pointing to the heaven of God but the spiritual realms and this means that in every spiritual place. 

We are in charge, we have authority over every spiritual region, and realm because of the throne on which we are sat together with Christ. The law of identification in Christ has done for us what a human mind cannot fathom, this is the climax of the revelation of Christ and our position in Him. 

Bible says, Ps 103:19: "The LORD has prepared his throne in the heavens; and his kingdom rules over all."  I want you to notice something very deep here, the scripture is saying His kingdom rules over all, but the question is, we now know where His throne is but where is His kingdom? I will show you later on. 

Sitting on Christ’s seat means we now host His rank, power, glory, authority, grace, wisdom, strength, victory. We host His throne, this is what it means to seat with Christ, we have rested in His glory and power. 

Now we can speak from that throne and have the whole creation under subjection. Listen, the understanding is not just about sitting but in what that throne represents and stands for. The throne of Christ is a place of dominion over all realms and dimensions. When the Lord walked on earth in the reality of that throne, the voice of the Father said to the whole creation, “this is my beloved son, hear you Him”.

 This Jesus spoke to winds and storms and they obeyed Him. He spoke to trees and they obeyed Him, He spoke to diseases and sicknesses and they obeyed Him, devils obeyed him, the whole creation was ordered to submit under the government of that throne of Christ. 

The reality is, today even while we walk on earth, we are hosting that same throne together with Him. We function from the throne of Christ and the Bible says, of the increase of His government and peace, there is no end [Isaiah 9:7]. 

Listen we will reign forever with Christ, because we are seated with Him on that everlasting governmental throne. All the principalities and power are under our authority in Christ, because we now host the most high throne of authority and dominion. 

Let us be awakened to this reality that we are seated together with Christ above any demonic rank and authority. We are the greatest power there is in the whole universe. Now let’s look at the Kingdom. 

The Bible says, Luk 17:21: “…For, behold, the kingdom of God is within you.” This is something to shout about, the Kingdom that rules over all which is the kingdom of God in us the new creatures. The word “Kingdom” means dominion, kingship, royal power, dominion and above all it means the realm of God. 

All this is said to be in us, I don’t know how many people really looks inside them to see and discover what they have. Could this be the reason why Apostle Paul said in Phlm 1:6: “That the communication of your faith may become effectual by the acknowledging of every good thing which is in you in Christ Jesus.” 

By having an eye set on the inside of us in Christ appreciating and acknowledging the good things imparted into us, our faith is made bold and stronger. 

Listen, not only do we have the kingdom in us, but we are the kingdom of God, meaning we are territories by which God manifest His kingly dominion on earth. 

Not  only  are  we  seated  in  the  highest  position  in  the  universe,  but  we  are  blessed  with  every spiritual  blessing  that  is  necessary  to  maintain  our  place  as  members  of  His  glorious  body. 

In the mind of God, everyone of us is in Christ now. He sees us in Him.  Listen, my God this is a deep revelation every believer must grasp and understand, the Bible says Colossians  3:3  “For  ye  died,  and  your  life  is  hid  with  Christ  in  God.’’  We are now present with God, and God is now our dwelling place as we are also His dwelling place. 

This is what it means to be hid in God, we are now present in and with God. To make this louder and clear after understanding this verse and the shared revelation in this book, you’ll realize that you don’t need any protection. 

If you need protection, then the question is, protection from what exactly? Devils? Didn’t you hear that Jesus dethroned the devils and made a public announcement of it? Jesus rendered useless the powers of darkness against the new creation in Christ Jesus. 

I will later explain in depth about this revelation but listen, if you host the throne of the Christ which is set far above not just above but far above every other throne, what is it that you are afraid of that can bring you on your knees and pray for protection? 

What we need is this kind of revelation. I never heard Jesus praying for His own protection. This doesn’t mean there is nothing trying to harm you but the point is, you have power over such things that may try to harm you. 

Look at the life of the Lord Himself and the failed attempts of people who wanted Him dead until He Himself agreed to die. This is why He said, “I gave my life, nobody took it from me”. 

He was pointing to something very deep that a natural men cannot fathom. Do you know who you are? I said you do not only have the kingdom of God in you but you are the kingdom of God on earth, God reigns on earth through you [Rom 5:17]. 

He placed His kingdom in you so that His realm may be found on earth. That’s the purpose of setting His Kingdom into you. We carry His dimensions in us. The book of Psalms 103:19 has said,… God’s kingdom rules over all. 

That Kingdom is in you now. Right from the beginning, God expressed His desire to be found on earth such that He told Moses to make a tabernacle and ark for His presence to stay but now He tabernacles our bodies. 

There was the tabernacle and the ark. The ark was inside the tabernacle, the tabernacle was like a house where God dwelt and the ark was the throne where God sat. Right now God tabernacles our bodies and He’s sat on our spirits. 

So talking of a believer, we are talking about a person who carries the totality of God with himself. We are carriers of God’s glory and presence, not only that but we are the presence of God and the glory of God. 

The power that is at the back of the whole creation is given to us by the reason of the Holy Spirit in us, no wonder the Bible says, God has placed everything He created under our dominion and under our feet. Psalms 8:3-9. 



Chapter 4

YOUR IDENTITY 



Your identity is the center or stem of power, authority, dominion and glory. This is why reading the Bible you’ll notice that before God used people in the old times, He first changed their identity. 

All about covenants pointed to the power of identity. In the old times, identifying yourself as an Israelite meant provision, protection, production, progress, victory, health and all the good things you can mention. 

They called it commonwealth of Israel. Jesus  became  the  sacrificial  Lamb  that  established  your  covenant  with  God. His  own  blood  was  shed.  

The  Book  of  Hebrews  says  that  we  have  a  new and living way to approach God. Remember “the way of blood”? Well,  the  blood  of  Jesus  has  made  the  way  for  us  to  have  a  covenant relationship with the Father and that covenant relationship has given us a new identity. 

By reason of our new identity in God through Christ, every virtue that defines the Godhead is now embedded in us, setting us apart. We are set apart for God in this life and are fully identified together with God in Christ. 

When a believer walks in ignorant of his identity, he is spiritually blind and such a person will continually be robbed of his glory in Christ. Unless you know who you are and whose you are, your privilege and rights in Christ, you cannot live a glorious and victorious life there is in Christ. 

For instance the Bible says, Christ  hath  redeemed  us  from  the  curse  of  the  law,  being  made  a  curse  for us:  for  it  is  written,  Cursed  is  every  one  that  hangeth  on  a  tree:  That  the blessing  of  Abraham  might  come  on  the  Gentiles  through  Jesus  Christ;  that we might  receive the promise of the Spirit through  faith (Gal. 3:13,14). 

Every  demonic  and  diabolical  thing  that  could  ever  come  against  you during  this  lifetime  was  placed  on  Jesus  when  He  went  to  the  cross.  He  bore the  penalty  for  your  sin.  He  bore  all  of  your  sicknesses  and  carried  all  of your diseases. 

He  totally  stripped  the  devil  of  his  power  to  harm  you.  He  bore  the  curse  for you  so  that  you  could  receive  the  blessing  of  Abraham  through  faith  in Jesus Christ.

 This is why God has two distinct desires that is to have all men saved and that all men come to the knowledge of truth. The knowledge of truth there, is coming to the full revelation of Christ.

 Christ is the place where God defines us yet many persons still locate themselves outside Christ even after getting born again, no wonder many are disadvantaged. After receiving salvation, we must seek to be established in the knowledge of Christ.

 Every believer ought to carry the distinct revelation of who God is, to know Him as He really is in Spirit and in truth. This deep and intimate knowledge of God is born out of our unique experiences in communion with God that establish us in the knowledge of God. 

I want you to understand that that is where genuine liberty stems from. Our liberty is directly linked to our knowledge of the truth, and in this case the truth is not just an information about something else but is the Christ Himself who said, “I am the way, I am the TRUTH and I am the Life.

 So when the Bible speaks of knowing the truth that sets us free, it is talking about intimately knowing the Christ, who He is, what He came to do and His present ministry towards a believer. 

Genuine liberty is in knowing Christ who is the truth. The Bible declares, "My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge…” [Hosea 4:6] . Ignorance is a prison, and many believers remain bound, not because the power of God is insufficient, but because they have not received the revelation that brings liberty.

 The boundaries of our lives are drawn by the level of our knowledge. The Bible says, “The entrance of thy word giveth light; it giveth understanding unto the simple.” [Psalm 119:130]. Here is the mystery, the Bible says, In the beginning was the Word and the Word was with God and the Word was God [John 1:1]. 

Verse 4 says John 1:4: "In him was life; and the life was the light of men." The Word carried in itself life which is the life of men. What the Word of God gives to men is life which translate into light when it touches men. 

Now we have come to understand that the Word is the very God which was in the beginning and that Word is the life and light of men. God desires that we live under the government of the life and the light He is to us which can only be birthed by our reception of the Word. 

So when the Bible declares that the entrance of His Word gives light and gives understanding… it simply means that, the entrance of the Word illuminates and gives you revelation and understanding about Christ which is the light and here I am saying that your freedom is defined in and by the revelation of Christ. The reason is that, the revelation of Christ not only defines us but also is our identity. 

We can only know ourselves by knowing Christ. This is the revelation and understanding that comes through the entrance of His Word. This is why the knowledge of Him gives us liberty. 

The Bible says “That the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give unto you the spirit of wisdom and revelation in the knowledge of him.” [Eph 1:17] . 

This is the key to walking in all that God has made available to us. The spirit of liberty works together with the spirit of knowledge and revelation. We are only as free as we know. 

These are twin powers or spirits that brings us into total freedom. The boundaries of our lives are drawn by the level of the revelation of Christ we know and apply and we can only go as far as we know. This is why every believer must sit under a teaching grace where Christ is revealed. 

God has imparted His life in you but you carry no liberty to exercise and enjoy that life until you carry the revelation and the understanding of the same. 



The Sons Of God



The Bible says, 1Jn 3:2: “Beloved, now are we the sons of God… This is one of the deepest revelation of our identification in God. 

It’s important that we understand that the new creation is born of God, we came from the womb of God and sadly many are still ignorant of this simple revelation.

Now what does it mean to be a son of God? Does it mean you belong to God? Yes but that’s not all. Does it mean you are born of God? Yes but that’s the beginning of the revelation. At one point the Lord was speaking calling Himself the son of God. 

The Bible says, John 5:18: "Therefore the Jews sought the more to kill him, because he not only had broken the sabbath, but said also that God was his Father, making himself equal with God."

The Jews understood what exactly it means to claim that God is your Father, it’s a very unique expression that points to your union and oneness with God. It’s a unique way to say I am in God’s class. 

When the Lord Jesus used the same words pointing to God as His Father, the Bible tells us that the Jews picked up stones wanting to stone Him saying, you being a man make yourself equal with God. [John 10:33]. The Lord did not deny being called God but instead said, John 10:34: “Jesus answered them, Is it not written in your law, I said, You are gods?” This revelation is what opens us to deeper conversations in Christ. 

The Lord in one portion of the scripture said, as my Father raises the dead and revives them, even so the Son revives who He will. In this particular scripture all that He was saying is that, since I am God’s Son, I am able also to do what God can do because it is given to sons to do so. 

Listen carefully here, revelation makes tremendous power available dynamic in it’s working. Look here, the power in you is locked until revelation comes. 

In my walk with the Lord I have come to realize that the devil fears revelation to which reason he blinds the eyes of those that believe not lest(for the fear that) the light(revelation) of the glorious gospel of Christ which is the image of God should shine on them. 

The devil also understands that he only thrives when ignorance is in view. This leads us to something very remarkable that happened in the Bible. 

The Bible tells us that while Jesus fasted forty days, the devil came and said, Mat 4:3: “And when the tempter came to him, he said, If you be the Son of God, command that these stones be made bread.” 

Look here, the devil did not run away from Jesus because he was fasting, the devil wasn’t rolling on the ground screaming no not at all. The first question or statement the devil threw to the Lord was, “if you are the son of God, change the stone into bread”.  

Now look here, the devil knew something deep about the sons of God because he once participated in in that dimension of being a son but on lower ground meaning as God’s created being and not as the begotten of God. We are more than created but are begotten of God. Our union with God is deeper than that of the angelic beings. 

The Bible calls those angels that came and took the daughters of man for marriage the sons of God [Gen 6] and also in the book of Job calls those angels that came to present themselves in the presence of God the sons of God [Job 1:6]. 

So angels had or have the privilege of being called the sons of God not as the offsprings of God but as God’s creation and mentored by God but we are more than created like I said that we are begotten of God, we are God’s offspring, we share the same identity and the same Name. 

We bear His image in the fullness of His glory, power and holiness. So here I’m trying to highlight a point that Lucifer before he turned into a devil knew that when he was once a son of God, there are things he could do as a result of that identity no wonder at this point in time he needed a proof to know if truly Jesus was the son of God by turning stone into bread.

 There is a deeper revelation that points us to this breed called the son of God which is higher than that of angelic experiences. According to the Bible, son of God means more than being created by God but means God in the flesh. 

That is why when the Lord said in the hearing of Jews that He is the son of God, they picked stones to stone him, saying you being a man make yourself equal with God. 

The devil understood that that place of being called the son of God is more than an address but a place certain possibilities are captured.

 If believers can know and understand this revelation of being a son of God, they would walk in miracles easily. Listen here, you are able to do because of who you are. Things responds to who you are, this is how powerful your identity is in Christ.

 Our opening verse has said of us that “now we are the sons of God”, and I’m saying to you that this is higher than having an address that we belong to God or created by God but means we are the revelation and expression of God in the flesh. 

We carry God’s DNA in us and automatically His abilities are resident in us. No wonder Jesus as the son of God said, he that has seen me has seen the Father. To be a son of God is to be the revelation and the embodiment of the totality of the Father the flesh. 

To be the son of God is more than being created by God but it is being God in the flesh and the Bible explains it as the mystery of godliness [1Tim 3:16]. This is what is called “Word becoming flesh”, remember John 1:1 tells us that the Word was God. So the Word becoming flesh is God manifesting Himself in the flesh. 

Apostle Peter tells us the mystery that we are born of the Word, this simply means that if we are born of what is called God, then it makes us not less than God. 

To be the sons of God is to be gods no wonder the Bible says, Ps 82:6: "I have said, You are gods; and all of you are children of the most High." Look at the word “children”, this word in Hebrew is “ben” and it means offspring, son, member of a group. We are in the God-class or God-group. 

Now we can better understand why John said, now we are the sons of God, they derived the depth of that revelation from this particular understanding that we are now gods born from the womb of God. 

If you can begin now to function with this revelation, you’ll start to see God possibilities manifesting in your life and through your life. Take time to reflect on what happened to you at new birth, you’re far bigger than what society says of you. Step up in the revelations of the Christ and begin to see with His lenses. 

ONE WITH GOD



One of the strange and deep revelation of our identity is our union or oneness with God. Not many of God’s children walks in this reality because this revelation is so deep that the human mind cannot accept it.

 I truly believe that even angels were confused seeing God whom they had known making Himself one with man in Christ. Christ is the place where we are made one with God. The mystery of godliness is has become one with men, God is now expressed through the flesh, justified in the Spirit and witnessed of angels. 

This is so powerful for a human mind to carry, this why Apostle Paul said, 1Cor 2:14: “But the natural man receives not the things of the Spirit of God: for they are foolishness to him: neither can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned.” 

This reality sounds very odd to the natural man. The first time the natural man heard this revelation, they took stones to stone Jesus, the Bible says, John 10:30: “I and my Father are one.” Look at what Jesus said of Himself, that wasn’t a statement of trying to make Himself one with God, but a statement of reality. 

No wonder this Jesus was very powerful of earth, He walked with and in this revelation of His oneness with the Father. A believer in the same way is designed to be an expression of the totality of the Godhead on earth.

Look at what happened when the natural man ruled by the devil did after hearing these words, the Bible says John 10:31: “Then the Jews took up stones again to stone him.” 

They could not take it in, the revelation was so deep, it sounded like pride and arrogance yet it was a statement of reality but the natural man could not handle it. 

You don’t know how much power these cogitations and confessions of your oneness with God carries and the damage they can cause to the demonic realms. 

Now this was the Lord speaking for Himself right, but what does the Word say about us the new creatures in Christ. What are we supposed to say about us in God through Christ?. I want you to understand that a believer is not a reformed person but a new creature altogether, you’re a new man in Christ. 

The Bible says, [NLT 1 Corinthians 6:17] But the person who is joined to the Lord is one spirit with him. Look here we share the same oneness with the Father, we have become one with Him in Christ Jesus.

 Listen here, if I am one with the all powerful God, what does that make me? Listen, I want you to understand that we are now sharers of His throne, His ability and glory. 

The most powerful point to note is that, this sharing is not 50/50 not at all, remember our union has made us one with Him, this simply means we share everything equally 100%. 

This is why Jesus was bold in His earthly days to say, John 16:15: “All things that the Father has are mine… We can now talk like Jesus talked. We share in His glory, now the whole world can witness all that God is and has in this world because the mystery of godliness points to God manifesting Himself in the flesh. 

Since all the things that belonged to God was of the Christ, we now also occupy the same place Christ hosted and all that is of the Father is also ours. 

Listen carefully, there is nothing that Jesus had in His earthly days that we do not have today. Listen carefully, everything that belongs to God, belongs to you. 

I once said to some that God has many sons but in actual sense God has one son. The reason is because of our oneness with Christ. The Bible tells us that Christ is the Head of the Church which is His body. 

Another scripture says, we are all members of that body in particular. This simply means, the Church is the son of God in singular term yet individually we are the sons of God as members. Remember in one of our topic we said the whole creation was placed in the hands of man to manage and control. God gave us charger over them. 

I like the revelation of our oneness because it illuminates us to the fact that we share the same life, throne, same name, same power, same authority, same dominion, same influences etc. 

What a glorious revelation it is to know the Christ. Through Christ, the fullness of the Godhead abides in us bodily so much so that wherever we are, God is. Revelation changes your posture. 

The one who understands that we are become one with God in Christ cannot pray for the presence of God to come, this revelation changes even your language in prayer. We are now one with God, where we are is where God is. 

This is why Apostle Paul says, Eph 3:19: “And to know the love of Christ, which passes knowledge (understanding), that you might be filled with all the fullness of God.” Look here, knowing God’s love brings us or ushers us into places where we can experience the fullness of God, and remember it is the love of God that has made us. 

The fullness of God is hidden in the revelation of His love. Our verse is saying that as we journey in understanding the love of God which passes knowledge, the purpose is so that we may be filled with all the fullness of God.

What this mean is, God called us out of darkness by His love, and He made us by His love, as we keep on understanding His love, we are brought into the all awareness of what and who we are in Him. 

That’s what it means to be filled with the fullness of God, it does not mean that we received part of God at new birth, but means as we journey in understanding God, we will come to understand that God has actually filled us to the full with all that He is and has. By coming to the full knowledge and understanding of God’s love, we will also be able to take advantage of all He has made available. 

The Bible says, Jer 31:3-5: “The LORD has appeared of old to me, saying, Yes, I have loved you with an everlasting love: therefore with loving kindness have I drawn you.

 Again I will build you, and you shall be built, O virgin of Israel: you shall again be adorned with your tabrets, and shall go forth in the dances of them that make merry.

 You shall yet plant vines on the mountains of Samaria: the planters shall plant, and shall eat them as common things.” 

Look closely, the love by which God has loved us with is called “everlasting love” it means that it continues and it is without end, the love of God is boundless and bottomless. This is why Apostle Paul is saying this love passes knowledge, take note here, He first said, “to know the love of God” which means the love of God can be known, so by saying which passes knowledge, he is not saying this love cannot be understood. 

The love of God is bottomless, boundless, never ending that’s why it is named everlasting love. There’s no human knowledge that articulate the depth, height, breath and the length of His love. 

He’s saying there is no end to the revelation of His love, and for eternity we will continue sinking deep into the bottomless ocean of the revelation of His love.

 So as we continue to journey in this revelation, we are being filled with the fullness of God, like I said that this filling is not like God continually coming into you but it’s an awakening of what we carry and the reality of His existence in us, it’s an awakening to the totality of His love. 

This is so deep and sweet. How many Christians have really come to this understanding and revelation that they have been made one with God, meaning all that God is, is what you’ve become in Christ Jesus. 

As God packaged Himself totally into Jesus bodily, He also has done the same in us, we are filled with His totally to the overflow. We can now talk as the Lord did in His days that I and the Father are one. Don’t be afraid to confess the same. 

Listen, don’t let your imperfections rob you of your perfections in Christ. The Bible says, “now we are perfect in Christ”. Just imagine you pray and speak words from this kind of revelation. 

This is something to shout about, now you can migrate from the revelation that says “greater is He that is in you than he that is in the world [John4:4], and say I am one with the greater one. Remember that revelation was written to babies in Christ because he first said, I write unto you little children. 

Now you migrate from that revelation and say, I am greater than he that is in the world. At this point, you have grown into your understanding of the Christ, who you are and what you’ve got.

 He came to dwell in you not as a separate entity but to the intent that you and Him may become one. So if the greater one lives inside of me and it is said that I am one with Him, this makes me greater as well. 

Our union with Christ has made us greater than any demonic power on earth. Come on somebody, I can literally sense a shift in my spirit. This revelation positions us at a far greater place in the spirit realm, this is how I perceive myself, I see myself this way. This is the revelation that the prophets of the old searched for deeply and never came to understand and also angels desired to look into. 

The Bible says in Luk 10:21: "In that hour Jesus rejoiced in spirit, and said, I thank you, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that you have hid these things from the wise and prudent, and have revealed them to babes: even so, Father; for so it seemed good in your sight." 

I have personally had times where angels and the prophets and other saints which went to heaven comes into our services and sit down to learn the revelations of God. 

They dearly waited with great desire and anticipation to know this mystery that was hidden for ages but now revealed in Christ. What an honor and privilege given to us in Christ Jesus, this is so deep and words cannot fully articulate the depth of His love and grace towards us. 



Resurrection And Life



Like I said to you that the purpose of understanding Christ is so that we may understand ourselves. It is the revelation of Christ that defines us and even what is possible to us. 

Every revelation of Christ names us, and it places a distinctive mark on us in the spirit. Apostle Paul said, I bear in my body the marks of Christ. Now I want you to understand something very deep that happened in the days of the Lord and how that can affect your life.

 Our book is mainly focusing on identity. So now let’s look at the book of John 11 (paraphrase) we are told that there was a man by the name Lazarus who was sick and ended up in the grave because he had died. I want us to look first at how Jesus defined the situation and how He later dealt with it. 

The Bible says John 11:11: "These things said he: and after that he said to them, Our friend Lazarus sleeps; but I go, that I may apply him out of sleep."

The Lord did not say, “Lazarus is dead” but said Lazarus sleeps at first. First of all, in order to operate effectively in the Lord or in spiritual things you must know how to name or define things.

 You remember when the Lord visited a house where there was a funeral because a little girl had died? He told people to stop crying because the child was not dead but sleeping. 

The Bible says, the people stopped crying and laughed at Jesus to mock. They were saying to Jesus in their laugh, listen Sir we are not acting here by crying but mean a serious business. Like I once highlighted that according to the Bible, the natural man cannot accept and understand spiritual things, they are beyond the natural understanding and experience to grasp. 

One of the privilege given to us by God is the ability to name things. A lion was not called a lion until Adam called it by that name. One of the greatest side of faith is in how faith interprets things which sounds so very foolish to carnal man. 

 I mean again that it wasn’t death until Jesus had said so, this is not denying the fact that Lazarus had died but it’s a spiritual law of interpretation. Faith frames the reality you want to see and experience.  

The next vital key to understand is what Jesus said about Himself after telling Lazarus sister that your brother shall rise again, the Bible says John 11:25: “Jesus said to her, I am the RESURRECTION, and the LIFE… Listen, it was on the basis of this revelation that Jesus commanded Lazarus came back to life. After saying these words, He went to the grave where they laid Lazarus and called him back to life. 

Look here, since Jesus said about Himself that He is the resurrection and the life, the dead Lazarus came back to life on the strength of that revelation. The point is, the realm of the spirit rebels against every form of ignorance. 

Listen, things or situations responds to you based on who you are and what you say about yourself, it’s a spiritual law, things both visible and invisible reciprocate on the ground of that revelation. 

Lower dimension of manifesting the power of God is to pray down the power of God, higher dimension is manifesting yourself into a situation. So Jesus manifested Himself into the grave of Lazarus as both the resurrection and the life and Lazarus immediately came back to life.

Listen, the Bible says He came to give us life, the intention of God in the things He gives to us is so that we may become one with the very things given to us.

 Like Jesus I can confess that I am life and Jesus is the Life with definite article. And not only that but I am resurrection because I am made one with the resurrection and the resurrection power and life resides in me. 

This means you can now draw possibilities from your identity in Christ Jesus. All that He is, is what we are as new creatures. God’s children must be taught these things if they are to bring Christ in the flesh like it was in His earthly days.

 Come up higher to this reality. Situations only have power over those that are blind to their identity in God. It is who you are that has command over situations. When the sons of Sceva tried to cast out devils, the first question devils asked was, Jesus I know, Paul I know but who are you? This is why I said, things in the spirit don’t just respond to words but to who you are. 

This is why also that Centurion man even after having perfect understanding to know the power of words and faith, he himself knew that it takes more than words to bring my servant back to life that’s why He went to the Lord Jesus Christ . 

If it was about words, he could have spoken the same words he asked the Lord to speak so that his servant may be healed but there was more to it. The Lord always manifested Himself(who He was) and miracles happened. 

Learn to manifest yourself into situations like Jesus did. Listen, possibilities are limited to the revelation and understanding of your identity, this is why the Lord said, Luk 18:27: “And he said, The things which are impossible with men are possible with God.” 

In other words, things are impossible not really because they are impossible but because the entity dealing with those things is called “men”, that’s why that which seems impossible with men is possible with God. 

Listen, there is nothing called impossible situation, this only depends on who is dealing with the situation. So I’m saying to you that that now that you are identified together with God, impossibilities no longer exist in your realm because it’s a realm of God, remember He placed in your spirit His realm, which is the Kingdom.

Look here, to say all things are possible with God, it’s supposed to mean God can do anything or can turn impossibilities into possibilities but on the other hand, that verse literally means anything which anybody in partnership with God commands turns into possibilities. Since we are in partnership and union with God, we no longer live in the realms that sees impossibilities.

This is why you see that when aprons partnered with God, even devils were casted out of people through handkerchiefs and aprons which doesn’t have the intelligence to speak. 

Listen, anything in partnership with God commands possibilities. As you also partner with the God that you are one with, you command possibilities. Remember your union with God begins in the womb, you are born of God, you’re God’s kid. 

Take advantage of what you’ve become in Christ and manifest the victory in every area of your life. Remember, victory doesn’t begin after the battle but begins from the place of birth. You’re born with the DNA of victory in you. You have the overcoming life within you and you are that overcoming life that is why you can be sure of victory in everything. 

==================================================

END OF THE WHO AM I BOOK

==================================================
==================================================

BOOK: THE HIGHEST ORDER OF LIFE

AUTHOR: SHEMMY GAVIYAO


SOURCE MATERIAL:
Chapter 1

The Fall



Now what do we mean by “the fall”. I will explain in depth about the fall in order to establish the purpose of this book which is the highest order of life. The name of this book suggest also that there is a lowest order of life and I want you to understand that there is no middle ground, there is the highest and the lowest order of life. God’s original intent from the beginning was to have man in the highest order of life. The Bible says, He created man in His image and after His likeness. God created man to be the visible expression of His totality. So before the fall, man was an agent of dominion, lived in the blessing and as a blessing and this man was the manifestation of God on the face of the earth. Now the moment the man went the way of treason breaking the laws of God, that man fell he became a fallen being in the face of the earth. What does it mean to fall? The Bible says in Rom 6:16: “Know ye not, that to whom ye yield yourselves servants to obey, his servants ye are to whom ye obey; whether of sin unto death, or of obedience unto righteousness?” So when man decided to heed to the instruction of the devil, he became the servant of the devil. The man fell. So the first meaning of “the fall” is that man lowered or declined from glory. The Bible says in Rom 3:23: “For all have sinned, and come short of the glory of God;”. The glory of God is not the appearance of light even though it is included, but the glory of God is the essence of God, that very substance that makes divinity is the glory of God and this man was made of that substance. Before the fall, man carried the essence, the nature, the DNA of God but when he committed that sin, he became dust. This man was a complex creation, that is to say he had the dimensions of God and the earthly dimension. The Bible says Gen 2:7: “And the LORD God formed man of the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and man became a living soul.” The moment man sinned, he became earthy, he lowered from the class and ranking of God on which he was created to function from. Man declined from God’s nature and essence. This man lost legality in the realm of God, God came looking for this man Adam and now Adam was running away from God. It’s important that you understand that a man is a crowned being, the Psalmist says Ps 8:4-6: “What is man, that thou art mindful of him? And the son of man, that thou visitest him? For thou hast made him a little lower than the angels, and hast crowned him with glory and honor. Thou madest him to have dominion over the works of thy hands; thou hast put all things under his feet:” Notice we said the glory of God is the essence of God, the very substance that makes God to be God and now in this portion of scripture is saying man was crowned with glory… What is glory? Glory in the Greek is the word doxa. Doxa means to honour something, or to praise, or dignity or to exalt something. Meaning, your glory is your dignity. Your glory is your praise and your glory exalt you above all things. It is the glory of God on you that exalts you. It is the glory of God on you that magnifies your name before the earth. It is the glory of God on you that gives you dignity and beauty before many. Above all, it is the glory of God on you that makes demons identify or recognize you as Christ's. Now, before Adam fell, he shared the same glory with God temporally. Meaning, as long as he keeps the law of God (thou shalt not eat), the glory of God would stay with him. This is why God put everything under his control. It was the glory of God that made things submitted under him not the fact that he was the first  man on earth. No, It was the glory of God that made his name famous in the garden. It was the glory that made him different. God shared that glory with him because he made Adam “god” on earth and clothed him with the same glory to do heaven on earth. God clothed Adam with his glory to do his will on earth just as God is doing in heaven by having dominion over all things. When Adam fell, the glory of God left him and all things flee from his control. Hence, the will of God in heaven ceased operating on earth because the man fell from heavenly glory. Meaning, the glory that gave him dignity and exalt him above all things left him and it affected his race badly. So man before the fall was a crowned being, he was an enthroned being but through sin he lowered, he declined from glory. The very animals he used to command began to chase him, the things he used to dominate began to dominate him. Man lost his legal standing in the spirit as an enthroned being. So the fall is actually a decline from glory, a dethronement of a corronated agent. Man lost dominion and his throne in the spirit on which he sat to command both realms the spirit and the physical realm. Another thing that happened to man when he fell is that he lost fellowship with God. The Bible says God visited Adam in the cool of the day but when He came, Adam was no longer on the throne of fellowship and He said Adam where art thou? God could no longer connect with man. The communion, the connection, the fellowship was now broken because man had declined or lowered from the place of fellowship through sin. So on account of the fall God had to drive the man from the garden and send him away. Genesis 3. After chasing the man from the garden, he placed a cherubim and a sword turning on every side to guard the  tree of life which was the demonstration of God’s mercy for man because if he was to take the tree of life, there was never going to be any hope for man’s salvation. Man was to be eternally condemned and cast away from God. Another thing that happened to man on the fall is that he took on the nature of the devil on himself, Jesus addressing a fallen man in the book of John 8:44: “Ye are of your father the devil, and the lusts of your father ye will do… Look here the nature of the devil is lust but the nature of God is love. The Bible says God is Love. So here man through the fall became one with the devil, identified himself with the devil and began to move under the government of lust which is the nature of the devil. This is the meaning of the fall, that man fell from God’s nature and government and came under the government of darkness, ruled and influenced by it. So now through the fall, man became subject to death, sicknesses and corruption and these entered the world. The Bible says in  Rom 7:5: “For when we were in the flesh, the motions of sins, which were by the law, did work in our members to bring forth fruit unto death.” This is what resulted in man’s fall. God at first wanted man to cultivate the garden and spread it until the whole earth was swallowed by the heavenly environment which was in the garden of Eden. Another thing that happened is that the earth came under the dominion of darkness, Adam sold the earth to the dominion of satan and darkness. The Bible says in Rom 8:19-20: “For the earnest expectation of the creature waiteth for the manifestation of the sons of God. For the creature was made subject to vanity, not willingly, but by reason of him who hath subjected the same in hope,” Before the fall, the earth was basking in the glory of God but through man’s sin, the earth came under the dominion of darkness. The leopards that were feeding on grass changed appetite to eating other animals. Creation was supposed to express and witness the mystery of oneness but it all failed through the fall of man, the earth was designed originally to be a platform that expresses God’s will, in the teaching of the Lord about prayer He said, “let your will be done on earth as it is in heaven”. Meaning the earth was designed to mirror heaven, to mirror God’s will, but because of man’s sin, creation started to rebel against man and the will of God because man was supposed to bring creation under the government of God no wonder God had said to him, subdue the earth meaning bring it under My will. Man began to live under the lowest order of life, the kind of life that is dominated by darkness, devils, sickness, bearing the fruits of darkness in every wise. This is the fall.



Chapter 2

Salvation



Salvation means soteria and it means preservation, deliverance, safety. The idea of salvation is to restore the fallen man back to his place in God, this is why in this order, Jesus came as the second and last Adam to bring back the first order which the first Adam had messed up through disobedience by going against what God had said to him not to do. Salvation is not just about going to heaven it’s the deepest revelation of the celestial. The death and resurrection of the Lord gives us an understanding that man was restored to dominion over the earth. Remember through disobedience, Adam subjected himself and the whole human race and creation under the dominion of the devil and darkness, and death became the end result of man. The Bible says the wages of sin is death. I want you to notice something very deep here, God never changed His mind concerning us from the very beginning, by that I mean that salvation came before the existence of sin on earth. Remember He is the God who sees the end from the beginning. Nothing catches God by surprise, God had this plan before the existence of Adam on earth, I mean God saw the plan of the devil in making you a failure and a servant to his leading and God planned your victory over devil’s plan against your life and destiny. The Bible says Rev 13:8: "And all that dwell upon the earth shall worship him, whose names are not written in the book of life of THE LAMB SLAIN FROM THE FOUNDATION OF THE WORLD." Right before the founding of the world, God had a plan to deliver us from the dominion of darkness through salvation. The Bible says Col 1:13: "Who hath delivered us from the power of darkness, and hath translated us into the kingdom of his dear Son:"  This is salvation, our deliverance from the fallen state back into God. Salvation is an idea that was in the heart of God to bring man back to an exact portrait that was in the heart of God from the beginning, the absolute nature and the likeness of God. So salvation is a restoration of Genesis 1:26-28. Through salvation we become the exact reflection of the image and the likeness of God. Both our spirits, souls and bodies must of necessity be the reflection of God in the earth realm. This is the idea of salvation, it was not just to pay for man’s sin but to restore man back to his original state in God as a crowned being whose dominion reaches and spreads over all the works of God’s hand. This is the work of redemption, God paying for the sin of man in order to reproduce Himself in man. Remember that salvation means deliverance, through salvation we are delivered from the authority and power of darkness that held man in bondage through Adam’s disobedience. Salvation is actually God’s strategy to create a new man who is different from the first Adam. It is to bring man back to the place of dominion and glory. We shared that man was a crowned being before the fall, he was crowned with glory and honor. Glory being the essence and the nature of God, through salvation God inhabits a saved man, meaning a saved man is crowned by God Himself, God is the very glory and honor He crowned a man with. Look here, the Holy Spirit is the glory of God, that Spirit of God crowns our spirits through His indwelling presence in us. The Bible calls the Holy Spirit the seal of our redemption, He is our crown. This is the highest order of life, salvation.  Man is freed from the bondage of darkness and brought back to God as a agent of dominion and spread the environment of heaven on earth realm. For things to be as God planned for man, God's  glory must be restored upon men.  For the will of God to be done on earth, God's glory must be restored on earth first. This is why Jesus prayed in Matthew 6 that the kingdom should come so that the will of God will be done on earth just as it is in heaven. Now, I got a good news for you who believe in Christ. The glory of God has been restored upon you through salvation. The same glory that makes God to be God is in you. The glory that makes all things in heaven and on earth exalt God's name and to submit to God is upon you who carry the Spirit of God in you as well. Jesus restored that glory. You now share the same glory with God. Heb 2:10For it became him, for whom are all things, and by whom are all things, IN BRINGING MANY SONS UNTO GLORY, to make the captain of their salvation perfect through sufferings. You who believe have been restored in God’s glory. The same glory that exalts God’s name above all is given to you to rule. The aim of this glory is to exalt you by the Spirit and to make all things submit to you. If the glory of God has been restored back in you, it means things including principalities have been put under your control to make sure you manifest heaven on earth. You are to do the will of God on earth just as it is done in heaven because you share the same glory with God. You are now God’s. Above all, the glory that makes God to be God and to be worshipped is upon you who believe. Submit to God through salvation and start to reign with Him. This is something to shout about, that Jesus died, was buried and rose. The Bible says He died for our offenses and was raised for our justification. It is the Lord that justifies, He has made us through salvation His righteousness. We are now the revelation of Himself on earth, accept this truth and start walking in it


Inheritance



It is of uttermost importance to understand that we are delivered from to be delivered into. He brought us out to bring us in. The Bible says, Oba 1:17: “But upon mount Zion shall be deliverance, and there shall be holiness; and the house of Jacob shall possess their possessions.”  Now like I said that Salvation means deliverance from the word “Soteria”. Notice that we were delivered from the grip and authority of darkness and translated into the kingdom of the Son of God. Then now the Bible says, Heb 12:22: "But ye are come unto mount Zion, and unto the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to an innumerable company of angels," After the deliverance from darkness, we are brought into Mount Zion and there’s also deliverance taking place on this mountain but this time around it’s not deliverance from devils but the deliverance of our inheritance into our hands. Remember, He delivered the Israelites from Egypt to deliver them into Canaan and in this Canaan there was a deliverance of inheritance into their hands, this is exactly what is happening to us in Christ Jesus. Notice something here, the Bible is saying in this mountain there are angels that cannot be counted, and it’s very important to understand that these angels are at our service. The Bible says, Heb 1:14: “Are they not ALL ministering spirits, sent forth to minister for them who shall be heirs of salvation?” This is glorious, all angels were created by God to minister to us who received the salvation of Christ, so now you can understand why we have innumerable number of angels upon mount Zion, they are at our service. These angels works to deliver the inheritance into our hands. Now I want to get your attention to something very deep and spiritual from the book of Psalms, the Bible says, Ps 103:20: “Bless the LORD, ye his angels, that excel in strength, that do his commandments, hearkening unto the voice of his word.” Angels do the commandment of God, meaning what they are commanded to do from and by the Word. Listen carefully, it is us who gives the Word of God voice, each time we do so, we are commanding the angelic dimensions to be at our services. For example, whenever I declare according to the Word of God that according to His divine power, He has given to me all things that pertain to life and godliness through the knowledge of Him who has called me to glory and virtue. That very moment, angels are released from their respected places to minister into my life because their duty is to hearken unto the voice of His command. I remember one day I was ministering declaring the  Word and my dear Prophetess said to me, I saw angels attentively looking at you waiting for you to say out something and them acting accordingly. Listen, you have to learn how to deliver yourself into your inheritance in Christ. It is through the Word, Spirit of God and the angelic ministry that we manifest ourselves into the inheritance set for us in Christ. If you don’t practice speaking the Word of God in your life, you may never step into your inheritance in Christ Jesus because it’s one thing to step into Christ and another thing to step into your inheritance in Christ. This is the reason why many Christians are living defeated lives because they have not taken advantage of their inheritance in Christ Jesus. One of such inheritance is VICTORY, the Bible says, 1Jn 5:4: “For whatsoever is born of God overcometh the world: and this is the victory that overcometh the world, even our faith.” Overcoming life is our inheritance in Christ, after defeating darkness, the world and devils, He left us with an inheritance to experience victory in every area of our lives. Listen, in Adam people inherit bondage but in Christ we inherit freedom. The Bible says, where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is freedom. Now we are in Christ and that’s where the Spirit of the Lord is and also in us. Remember that Jesus was given to the world but the Holy Spirit is given to us who accepted Christ. So In Christ there is freedom and in me there is freedom because the Spirit of God is in me. 2Cor 3:17: "Now the Lord is that Spirit: and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty." I want to catch your attention on something really interesting here because many Christians will say but I have the Holy Spirit in me but my life’s experiences cannot tell right from left, there’s this turbulence all over my life, but notice, Now the Lord is that Spirit. We already know now that the Spirit is the Lord, so we can say where the Lord is, there is freedom or liberty. The reason why we have Him as the Lord is because wherever His government is revealed and exercised, liberty will be the byproduct. Very few have allowed the Spirit find expression through them and manifest His Lordship dimensions this is why many even having the Holy Spirit in them, their lives cannot spell the word freedom. Listen, the Holy Spirit is our inheritance, the greatest of all the inheritance and blessings given to us by the Father. There’s so much given to us by God that we can only realize and receive through the Word and the Spirit. Apostle Paul said, Acts 20:32: "And now, brethren, I commend you to God, and to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up, and to give you an inheritance among all them which are sanctified." Understand that Jesus left us an inheritance when He died and rose again. The Bible says, after having received abundance of grace and of the gift of righteousness we shall REIGN in this life by Christ. Listen, this is your inheritance in Christ to reign and have dominion in this life over all forms of darkness and devils. Apostle Paul said, it is the Word of His grace which builds us and gives us an inheritance among them all which are sanctified. The reason why we need to be built first before an inheritance is handed over to us is because He left us with so much and it takes a certain level of capacity and maturity to handle it. This is why the Bible says, Gal 4:1: "Now I say, That the heir, as long as he is a child, differeth nothing from a servant, though he be lord of all;" So the heir must grow to handle inheritance, please listen and understand that you don’t need anything in this life, all things are yours in and through Christ. What Jesus did and your position in Him is your advantage. Grow into this revelation, you’ll start seeing life opening to you in a very amazing way. The Bible says, 1Cor 3:21-23: "Therefore let no man glory in men. For all things are yours; Whether Paul, or Apollos, or Cephas, or the world, or life, or death, or things present, or things to come; all are yours; And ye are Christ's; and Christ is God's." Notice that all things are yours, things present or things to come ah glory be to God, now I can face the future with all boldness without fear because even the future is all mine. This is why I said you need nothing in this life because you have everything in your name in this life. There’s more to our inheritance in Christ that I can write a book of hundreds of pages explaining. Boy you are loaded with so much. If we can look at life in the light of God’s Word, victory will be our daily testimony. Hallelujah, in Christ we have been called to inherit glory and mastery over all things in this life, the Bible says He has called us to glory and virtue. Look here, the word call means invite or invitation, God has invited us to answer to the life of glory and virtue. The Bible says, Phlm 1:6: "That the communication of your faith may become powerful by the acknowledging of every good thing which is in you in Christ Jesus." Notice that faith is made effective in it’s operations because people take time to acknowledge every good thing in them which is in Christ Jesus. It's time you acknowledge your inheritance in Christ, those are the good things in you which is in Christ Jesus, the Holy Spirit, victory, wisdom, blessings, glory, righteousness, grace, prosperity, life, faith etc. Such is your inheritance in Christ that you ought to acknowledge daily to step into the experience. 



The level to which you acknowledge every good in you which is Christ Jesus, determines how effective and operational your faith will become. It’s very saddening because many are still demonically conscious, they lay hands on their heads and command demons out of them, they haven’t been enlightened to the reality of the existence of Christ in them in the person of the Holy Spirit. 

Chapter 3

Highest Order Of Life



Like I mentioned in the first chapter that man declined from the glory, class and ranking of God, He lost his throne as a corronated being in the spirit. He began to live as a dominated man, dominated by darkness, sicknesses, diseases and corruption. Look careful, the devil did not have a right over Adam until the day Adam fell, because through disobedience Adam lowered himself and the whole creation to the position of the devil. The devil was never an issue of concern before the fall of man. Notice that God did not even warn Adam about the devil because Adam lived far above devils before he fell. So God through salvation, brings man back to the original state that is Genesis 1:26-27 where man is a replica of God Almighty. The devil only ruled over a downgraded man up until that time, he did not have a right over an upgraded man. Now this is the highest order of life. Through salvation, God is birthing gods, people after His own kind. We are the God-kind. Remember that through sin, man became dust and through the gospel of Christ Jesus, the Bible says He is bringing many sons unto glory. That’s soteria, it’s bigger than saving man from sin but restoring them back to their original state and place  in God where a man can become the brightness of God’s glory and the express image of His person. It is given to man to demonstrate who God is, that’s why He created a man in His image and after His likeness. Christ is the image of God and the likeness thereof. So everyone born again bears the image and the likeness of God in it's perfection. Like I said that the idea of salvation was not just to save man from sin and deliver man from the dominion of darkness but was so that a delivered man may become the replica of God, the epitome of God carrying all His attributes and essence. So saving man from sin was a means to an end. That’s why Apostle John tells us that, as He is in heaven, so are we here on earth. Salvation is not only saving man from sin but a system God brought in place to transform the saved into the state of God, that man become the carrier of diety and the expression thereof in every sphere. 



The Life Of God



This is one of the greatest gift that a man can have from God, God’s life. The Lord said in John 10:10…that He came to give life to it’s full. Now there are two different words for life that I want to explain before we delve deep into this subject of God’s life. We have the Greek words psuche and Zoe. Now psuche is the human life or the breath of life and Zoe is God’s life. This Zoe is the kind of life Jesus came to give to humanity, this life is an upgrade into the realms and dimensions and class of God. Remember we said that at the beginning before man fell, man was a complex being, created with the dimensions of God and earthly dimensions as well but through sin he became dust meaning earthy. Man ceased to live in the God-realm, he only remained with the earthly dimension. Now looking at God’s life, what is God’s life? Or rather who is God’s life? I want you to understand that God is the very life that He gives. Looking at the scriptures, the Bible says John 14:6: "Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life: no man cometh unto the Father, but by me." So the life we received at new birth is Jesus, He is the very life inside of us. Listen, at this point you must begin to understand that you are not a mere human being on earth but you are a god-being carrying the very essence and the life of God in you. And let’s look at this verse again Col 3:4: "When Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then shall ye also appear with him in glory."  The reason why God imparts this life called Christ in us, it is so that we begin to live as Christ. This life called Christ is God’s ability, this is why Apostle Paul said, Phil 4:13: “I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me.” Look here, God’s life carries the ability of God, the limitless abilities of God are in this life we received. Remember it’s called eternal life, meaning endless, timeless, boundless life, this life defines that God is not limited to anything. Since we received this life at new birth, we must learn to function and abide by this life. It is this dimension of life that makes us gods and super-beings on earth. Apostle Paul recognizes this life called Christ as his strength and ability that enables him to do all things. Look here, we see Jesus healing all manner of sicknesses and diseases, casting out demons, setting men free from bondage, walking on water. Matthew 8:23-28 we see Jesus rebuking the winds and His disciples asking, “what manner of a man is this”, at one point He was seen walking on top of the waters. The man was simply extraordinary, then He said, I AM THE VERY LIFE that I came to give. I want you to understand that this life called Christ transcends all human laws and limitations. I can see this man Jesus walking towards the tomb of Lazarus who had died and buried 4 days, the man Lazarus was already smelling very bad, he was no longer in the good shape and state anymore. Look at the introduction Jesus gave before approaching the tomb of Lazarus, He said John 11:25: "Jesus said unto her, I am the RESURRECTION , and the LIFE:… In other words Jesus is saying to Martha that I have power over the death of Lazarus because I AM THE LIFE. Look here, I said this life called Christ transcend all human limitations and possibilities, this life is called eternal life. Meaning life that transcends the impossibilities of time, it’s a timeless life, no wonder Jesus brought back Lazarus from the dead after four days. He had advantage over time because He knew the kind of life He carried that it has power over time. Listen, it doesn’t matter what the devil did in the past, now that you have the life of God in you, the kind of life that transcends time, you are given advantage over everything that happens in time. This is why Jesus could heal a person who had been crippled for 38 years in an instant because He had advantage over time through the timeless life, the life He was and is. This is something bigger than anointing, the life of God precedes the anointing. The power of God is the attribute of God but the life of God is the essence of God. This is the very life that makes Him to stand-out. That’s an outstanding life. This is something to shout about, we have the very life of God in us, His very essence. Listen, if you are born again, it’s high time to start seeing yourself this way. You are not ordinary, you are fashioned after God’s essence full of His attributes. This God-life enables us to stand as God, now I know that through eternal life which is God’s life, things both animate and inanimate, visible and invisible responds to me as they would to God Himself. Let’s explore more on this life and bath ourselves in His revelations.


Life Light



The Bible says, John 1:4: "In him was life; and the life was the light of men." Look here, this life is said to be the light of men. Meaning until men starts to live in and under the government of this life, they are totally in darkness. God hid His greatest revelation of men in this life. Revelation is light. Until men contacts this life they do not know themselves, they will just live their lives and define themselves based on what circumstances are saying to them. The absoluteness of God’s revelation towards men in in this Zoe, the God-kind of life. This life illuminates us to understand that it is all we need to live a victorious life high about circumstances and devils. The Bible says, 1Jn 5:4: "For whatsoever is born of God overcometh the world: and this is the victory that overcometh the world, even our faith." This is where victory begins and ends. Look here, this verse is saying whatsoever is born of God… this simply means everything with this life, everything that is birthed by God carries within itself the ability and the possibilities to win. That ability is God’s life or is in God’s life. The God-life is God’s DNA of victory implanted and printed into our spirit. We have the DNA of victory in Christ. We are born overcomers in this world. Remember I said, when man fell due to sin, he had the devil as his master, he was ruled by his emotions, he was ruled by sicknesses and diseases but now that you have something higher than human life which is God’s life, you have become a master over devils and all his cohorts. The Bible says John 1:5: "And the light shineth in darkness; and the darkness comprehended it not." Remember our opening verse in this part that in Him was life and the life was the light of men. Now the Bible is telling us that light shines in darkness and darkness comprehended it not. What it simply mean is that as men receives this life which is their light and start living under the government of this life, darkness can no longer lay a hold on them. This life makes us superior over darkness, that is the kingdom of darkness and all the demonic force. We are a very impossible and complicated topic and subject to darkness. They cannot handle us anymore. This is how God had to deal with the devil, by giving us His life. It is through this life which is my light that I now understand that the devil had power over a fallen man but not on a man like me who has God’s life. Through God’s life, we are restored back to our original place, we are restored from a fallen state. Look here, devils may have anointings on them but I have something that transcends anointing. I have in me what makes God to be God. His very life which is His nature and essence. I rule over darkness because I am light in the Lord. There’s something I want you to understand that can answer on why many Christians even though they have God’s life, yet they are still ruled by darkness. Let’s bring back our verse, John 1:5: "And the LIGHT SHINETH in darkness..." Notice that it is the shining of light that bowed darkness, not just the presence of light but the shining of light is the one that bowed down darkness to a place where darkness cannot stand it. Now you may ask, how do I shine my light? The first step is to walk in the consciousness of this life you’ve received, then think, speak and act that way. That’s shining your light which is God’s life in you. Lazarus did not wake up from the dead just because Jesus was standing outside the tomb but the moment Jesus shined His light into the tomb by calling forth Lazarus, death received a surprise, never in it’s experience from history had it encountered such light of life that can dispel it’s power from holding the dead. See, Lazarus was already rotten, he was smelling already, the tissues and cells of his body had died already but as the God-life entered into that tomb through the voice of Jesus, all the dead tissues got repaired and restored and brought back the human spirit into the body. This is what is called the light shines in darkness and darkness comprehended it not or failed to handle and conquer it. Listen this is what Apostle Paul meant when he said “yet in all these things we are more than conquerors”. To be more than conquerors simply means we have passed the level of conquering. We are the victory manifesting into the world of man, like what the book of Daniel said, that it may be known that there is a God who rules in the kingdom of man. Listen, the Bible says, Eph 5:8: "For ye were sometimes darkness, but now are ye light in the Lord: walk as children of light:" Remember, the life was the light of man, and this life has made us light in the Lord, meaning rulers over all forms of darkness. As we walk in with the consciousness of this life and the authority thereof, we will start seeing our lives manifesting the victory there is in Christ. Listen, in that situation of yours, let light shine. Against those demonic forces, let light shine. We walk as the children of light dominating every sphere and realm of darkness and devils. Listen, we ought to live constantly and consistently a triumphant life every day. 


New Creature



Like I taught that Satan only had a rule or authority over a fallen man due to sin. See what the Bible says, Col 1:13: "Who hath delivered us from the power of darkness, and hath translated us into the kingdom of his dear Son:" God through the new birth took us away from the place where Satan had authority and dominion over. Being in the place where we were once dominated by darkness had more to do with our state and status than our failure to fight back. Man had lowered himself to a place where devils had a rule over. Then God in Himself upgraded us through the new birth then the Bible says, 2Cor 5:17: “Therefore if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature: old things are passed away; behold, all things are become new.” We are made new in Christ, notice that we are not reformed but made new in Christ. I want you to notice what this verse is saying, the moment you are born again and are in Christ, you become a new creature and the old things are passed away… What are those old things? Obviously living a life ruled by darkness under satanic authority, things like failures, sicknesses, diseases, weaknesses, curses. I want you to notice again what this verse says,… behold all things are become new. What are those all things that have become new? Let’s see what the Bible says,  2Cor 5:18: "And all things are of God… Look here, all things are of God. The all things that has become new to us who are born again are the things of God, these new things are the life of God, His righteousness, His victory, His glory, His blessings, His riches, His strength, His honor, His wisdom, His might, His Spirit, the list goes on and on. All things are become new, meaning I am no longer expected to live as a defeated person that I was before I got born again. Through new birth, given the life of God, I have transcended high above all demonic spirits and powers and all the effects of darkness and corruption. Like a man with bullet proof clothes, the bullets from darkness cannot penetrant the jacket on me. The Bible says, we have put on Christ, no sickness, disease and any form of darkness can touch me because I upgraded in Christ by Christ, I am a Christ-version. The environment of sin that used to make it possible for those things to hold me down was done away in Christ at new birth. This is the highest order of life. Living above demons and circumstances. This is life in Christ. We are Christ ruled, influenced, dominated and empowered. 

Seated With Christ



Eph 1:20-21: "Which he wrought in Christ, when he raised him from the dead, and sit him at his own right hand in the heavenly places, Far above all principality, and power, and might, and dominion, and every name that is named, not only in this world, but also in that which is to come: [Eph 2:6]: "And hath raised us up together, and made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus:"



Notice here, Ephesians 1:20-21 talks of Christ being raised from the dead and made to sit at God’s right hand far above all principality, and power and might and dominion and every name is named in this world and that also which is to come. Then Ephesians 2:6 brings us into the equation and reveals to us that we were raised together with Christ and made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus. The position on which we sit with Christ in Christ in the heavenly places is far above principalities, powers, might, dominion and every name that can named in this world and that which is to come. We are sharers of His throne, above all through our identification with Him we share the same Name with Christ. One of the most interesting and striking truth revealed in these two scriptures are the words “heavenly places”. These words are not limited to the heaven of God but they also mean “spiritual realms or places” notice that it’s in plural, meaning we are seated on one throne together with Christ but in different places. The throne on which we are seated together with Christ covers all spiritual regions and dimensions both in the darkness and in the light. In every realm we have the throne of authority and victory on which we sit together with Christ Jesus. For example, there is a kingdom of marine spirits, a kingdom of witches and wizards, as long these kingdoms has their location in the spirit realm, we have a throne set far above them, in other words we reign over all these kingdoms. Notice the Bible says, we are made to sit. What it simply mean is that God provided for us a place in Christ Jesus to rest far above all demonic spirits and devils. Instead of being taught how to deal with them, we focus on teaching you how to rest, function and live far above them. How come witches and devils dominates your life when you are seated far above them? How come they become such great issue of concern when you are seated far above them. You see a misconception we have about devils and what Christ came to do and made us become is what is causing us to be involved in endless battles with devils. Understand that all the demons and devils combined cannot be greater than He, the Holy Spirit that is in you. There is a statement Jesus said after saying I have given authority to tread on serpents and scorpions and over all the power of the enemy, then He said “and nothing by any means shall hurt you”. The reason why He said this is because of this,   (NIV Col 2:15) Having DISARMED principalities and powers, He made a public spectacle of them, triumphing over them in it. The word disarmed in original text is “apekdysato” which simply mean, to strip or deprive someone of their power, authority and power. In ancient warfare, to disarm someone meant to remove their armor and weapons, leaving them vulnerable. Jesus stripped the principalities and powers of their spiritual armor, rendering them ineffective. Jesus took away the power and authority of the spiritual forces of darkness. They no longer have control over believers. With this understanding you will now start functioning from the position of victory which place is said to be at the right of God in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus. Apostle Paul would have put it this way that we are seated far above those conquering when he said we are more than conquerors. Brother, sister we took our rest in the victory of Christ over all devils, we rested all our efforts in His seat. This is the highest order of life, we are immune to the attacks of devils, boy they can’t reach us because we are seated far above them and our lives are with Christ in God. Understand that you are given a position in Christ, and the position on which you function from is determined by the level of the revelation you know and applying in your life. In the revelation of Christ, there are many revelations, this is why David said, Psalm 36:9 “…in thy light shall we see light.” This is an exposure to the revelation of God, because revelation is light. Each revelation carries different weight of authority, glory and command. This is what determine our ranking in the spirit because that’s where faith is birthed. In other words, faith is built through the revelation of Christ, and each level of faith has different level of command in the spirit realm to the physical. This is why we must be diligent to build our faith because our walk with God totally depends on it. You see, it’s possible to have the language of something and not have the authority of it. You remember when the nine disciples of Jesus failed to cast out a devil from that little boy, when Jesus came and casted out the devil from the boy, later on His disciples came asked Him why they couldn’t cast out that devil (Mark 9:14-29). What really inspired them to ask was because Jesus came and said the same thing they also said to the devil but didn’t came out. Jesus had called them faithless generation, this is why I said, you can carry the language of faith and not have faith or you may carry the language but lacking the authority to back up the language which is faith. This is why we ought to build our faith daily because it is the anchor of our Christian walk. The depth of the revelation of Christ we have in our spirits determines the height of our command in the spirit realm. You see many times, most Christians haven’t taken time to build authority in their spirits simply because they are not taught right. Authority is built by understanding from the Word of God through the Spirit of revelation. Apostle Paul said, I went up by revelation and indeed revelation is that ladder we use to climb higher in the Lord. Having done saying this, do we really need to fight?

The Name Of Jesus



 Like I said, Christ gave and left us with an inheritance, and one of the great inheritance He gave us is His Name not only to use but we are also named after the same Name. The Bible tells us that Christ is the head of the Church and we all are members of His body, this simply means we cannot have a different of the body and the head. We share the same Name which is called Christ, we share the same authority and throne 100%. Now the Bible says, Mic 4:5: "For all people will walk every one in the name of his god, and we will walk in the name of the LORD our God forever and ever." Notice here, we are not only given the name of Jesus to speak but also to walk into, that’s walking and functioning by His authority. Speaking the name of Jesus is the lowest dimension to manifest His authority but walking in His Name is the highest order of authority we have in His walk. This is why Apostle Paul said in Col 3:17: "And whatsoever ye do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God and the Father by him." Look at how this truth is connecting, this is how I know that in everything I am involved into, it can mount big and successful because I am doing it in the name of the Lord. With the revelation and consciousness of His Name, victory is 100% guaranteed. I want you to understand the geographical boundary of authority the name of Jesus covers and what the name of Jesus mean. Listen, prayer is powerful not because we have prayed long even though at times we must pray long as part of our spiritual exercise but notice this, prayer is as powerful as the revelation engaged in praying. The Bible says, Phil 2:9: "Wherefore God also hath highly exalted him, and given him a name which is above every name:" The word name in this case is different from saying Jonathan or David, that word name means rank, authority, power. In other words what God did upon exalting the name of Jesus was to exhaust all His power, authority and rank into the name of Jesus Christ. So to say the name of Jesus Christ is above every name literally means the name of Jesus is above every rank, authority and power. Remember when He rose from the dead, He said Mat 28:18: "And Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth." The word used for power in original text is authority which is exosia. Look closely to this verse, there is no other power or authority that is existing outside Christ Jesus because all was given and vested in His Name. This is why you need not to fear devils. They got no power. I cannot understand Christians who prays saying “every power of witchcraft holding me down break loose now in Jesus name”. Listen carefully, there is no power of witchcraft holding you, but you have been holding yourself into witchcraft, just walk out. This is why Jesus came preaching deliverance which in original text is aphesis which simply mean freedom and forgiveness. This is exactly what I am doing now, preaching deliverance or freedom. Look now as we look at the geographical area the name of Jesus covers, Phil 2:10: "That at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of things in heaven, and things in earth, and things under the earth;" Notice, in heaven, in earth and under the earth. I want you to understand that Jesus did not need His name in heaven but He left us with His name, it is our inheritance to use and enjoy. It makes no difference to be told that witches dug your life under the ground, still the name of Jesus has the authority there. The name of Jesus is the absoluteness of His power and authority, it’s the same authority and power by which God spoke the worlds and everything in them into existence. Having the name of Jesus as your inheritance in Christ makes you as powerful as Jesus Christ is because all His power is vested in that name. If you start to day to walk in the revelation of His name, nothing at all will pull your life down to grave. You can speak with the revelation and consciousness thereof and things will start responding to you. I want you to understand that before you speak and do anything, you must first of all build this authority in your spirit through the meditation of His Word. Meditation is a spiritual conception, you are allowing your spirit to brood over the reality of what God says about you or concerning that matter and making yourself one with that which is know. It’s intimacy with the Word of God that will birth the reality of what the Bible says concerning that matter or devils and the authority of Jesus name. Many people do not do this, that’s why there is little or no spiritual energy even when they are shouting the name of Jesus with their loudest voice. We build authority by our comprehension of the Christ, our position in Him, His position in us and what He did and is doing then engage such understanding to manifest the realities we see from the Word of God concerning our lives. Boy I can see you prospering and making it in this life, no devil will be able to pull you down in this life. Now in our next chapter, I want us to have a conversation on some sensitive issues and believe God for the grace to understand and apply His Word. Take time to meditate and build this reality in your spirit and let it find expression through you in your daily life. 

Chapter 4

Spiritual Warfare

Walking In Falsehood



Yes there is such a thing as walking in falsehood and that’s the path many Christians have been walking into for quite a long time now, but praise be unto God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ who is reconciling us back by the spirit of revelation so that our hearts may be established in the truth. And yes there is such a thing as having hearts established in the truth, meaning having our spirit positioned and conditioned according to truth. The Bible says, 2Pet 1:12: “Wherefore I will not be negligent to put you always in remembrance of these things, though ye know them, and be established in the present truth.” There is something called established in the present truth, that’s the progression of the truth or revelation. In the body of Christ you’ll find twisted truths and some outdated truths and current or present truths. It is possible to be correct but not current. And it is also possible to current but not correct. Apollos was correct but not current, because he was still preaching the baptism of John even in the dispensation of Christ that’s according to Acts 28:24-26. While Thomas was current but not correct, because he was in tune with the journey of Christ but still doubted the resurrection of Christ according to John 20:24-29. We must be both correct and current in God to have a balanced walk with God and stop being a one sided stale Christian. The Bible says  Hos 7:8: "… Ephraim is a cake not turned” . That’s how many of God’s children are, they are half baked in the revelation of Jesus Christ. So while dealing with falsehood in this chapter, I want you to pay attention and open your heart to learning these truths because we are going to touch on some very critical and sensitive things. My approach towards God is, Lord I do not know because you will never know until you don’t know, so I make room for learning and relearning. Many people in the body of Christ have built their lives and walk with God in wrong foundation and to some there is no depth in their building. 

In Spirit And Falsehood



The Bible says in Mic 2:11: “If a man walking in the spirit and falsehood… This is how many of God’s children are operating in their walk with God, The Bible says, Rom 8:9: “But ye are not in the flesh, but in the Spirit, if so be that the Spirit of God dwell in you… So this means we are all in the spirit as long the Holy Spirit is in us. I want you to see the desire of God expressed in the book of 1Tim 2:4: "Who will have all men to be saved, and to come unto the knowledge of the truth." So after getting born again, God desires that we be established in the knowledge of truth. Until we come unto the knowledge of truth, we might be journeying in the spirit and falsehood. Apostle Peter talks about current truth, and yes some truths are seasonal and truth and revelation in God are progressive. For example, it is truth that the sacrifices of bulls and sheep used to appease God’s anger towards man’s sin but the current truth is, while Jesus hanged on that Cross, God exhausted His anger on Jesus and was punished, cursed and condemned for our sins, He became the eternal sacrificial lamb of God that we need not to sacrifice bulls and sheep again. Imagine someone just gets born again and start reading the Bible from the old testament and come across the reading of sin offerings, you might be amazed to see some people practicing such rituals. Listen, it was true then but not true now. Just like the preaching of generational curses, God once declared in Exo 20:5: "Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them: for I the LORD thy God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and fourth generation of them that hate me;"  It was then but this truth is not current therefore making it totally wrong, the current truth is, 2Cor 5:19: “To wit, that God was in Christ, reconciling the world unto himself, not imputing their trespasses unto them… God comes now and He is not focusing on the sins of people which thing He said He would do to a generation past. God through Prophet Ezekiel said, Ezek 18:1-3: “The word of the LORD came unto me again, saying, What mean ye, that ye use this proverb concerning the land of Israel, saying, The fathers have eaten sour grapes, and the children’s teeth are set on edge? As I live, saith the Lord GOD, ye shall not have occasion any more to use this proverb in Israel.” Look here, this doesn’t seem like Exodus 20:5 anymore, the truth has progressed higher. So in the body of Christ we have three kinds of fellows, some holding present truth, some holding outdated truth, and some holding lies, their view of God is distorted because it is not build upon Christ which is the foundation. Listen, for a man who is outside Christ, generational curses can affect their lives but for a man in Christ it not ought to happen. Notice, what ought not to happen can still happen if the people are ignorant. The Bible says, Rev 5:9: "And they sung a new song, saying, Thou art worthy to take the book, and to open the seals thereof: for thou wast slain, and hast redeemed us to God by thy blood out of every kindred, and tongue, and people, and nation;" Look, our redemption in Christ was not limited to the redemption from sins only but also from every kindred, and tongue and people and nation. Why should we be talking about a Christian suffering from generational curses when God bought us from people tongue, and kindred. You see the fallen wisdom of the princes of darkness will whisper into your mind and say, you still have their blood, it is your spirit that underwent the process of redemption but listen, the Bible says Rom 8:11: “But if the Spirit of him that raised up Jesus from the dead dwell in you, he that raised up Christ from the dead shall also quicken your mortal bodies by his Spirit that dwelleth in you.” The word quicken there means, vitalize or to give life and see that this life by the Spirit is given to our physical bodies. There is Zoe the life is God working and empowering this physical body of mine by the Spirit of God. The same power that raised Christ to a new life is the same power working in my spirit, soul and body. The life of God is perfected in me. I told my people that God gave us His life on earth so that we may walk as God on earth. I remember Jesus walked in this earth under the economy of this life. This is the life that can call dead rotten Lazarus from the grave and he comes back to life. Understand the authority of this life that is working in your body. How can cancer live in the body that is being vitalize by this life? No it ought not to happen. It’s called life incorruptible, it kills every corruption, which is sicknesses, diseases, death and all manner of evil. We have been brought to a new life in Christ. The life of victory, this is the present truth and our hearts must be established in it. The Bible says, whatsoever born of God overcomes the world and this is the victory that we have, even our faith. Faith is our victory, meaning to say when we agree with the present truth of our state and estate in Christ, victory will be triggered to manifest. See the progression of this revelation, you look at those generational curses now with authority and say in the name of Jesus you cannot touch me now, get off me in Jesus name. It’s so simple like this.

The Knowledge Of God

Essence Of Warfare



What exactly are we fighting against? Why warring? Now I want you to understand that Christ Jesus won the battle already, therefore Christianity is the life of confirming and affirming our victory in Christ over the defeat of the devil. It’s very saddening because many Christians are still trying to defeat the devil up until now. The only problem is that, many are not properly trained and taught. But listen here, the Lord Jesus Christ completely defeated the devil, the Bible says, he disarmed the principalities and powers… this means the devil is armor-less but now what he can do is to help you arm yourself for your own destruction. Now let’s look at this scripture for a moment, 2Cor 10:4-6: “(For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God to the pulling down of strong holds;) Casting down imaginations, and every high thing that exalts itself against the knowledge of God, and bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ; And being in readiness to revenge all disobedience, when your obedience will be made full.” Notice, our warfare is against strongholds, thoughts, imaginations and every high thing that exalts itself against the knowledge of God, then the Bible says, all these must be arrested and be brought to the obedience of Christ. Notice that all these things are connected to you, your mind, so the strongholds are not some sort of demons in the heavens or seas but part of your thinking and reasoning pattern. For example, everyone of us grew up hearing that there are incurable diseases and many when they confirmed themselves having such diseases they died and never recovered because they were taught that it’s incurable. Notice that word “incurable” is a stronghold helping the devil to continue in his plan to destroy lives. According to the Word of God, we are taught that nothing is impossible to God, that also mean that cancer, HIV and Aids, and such viruses are curable with God. In the days of Jesus, In His flesh the Bible says, He healed all manner of diseases and sicknesses. This statement also includes the so called incurable. Notice again in our opening verses that Apostle Paul mentions, imaginations, there are false images that the devil has helped many people to print and build in their minds, such people cannot see anything good happening to them, they imagine themselves poor, beggarly and sick every time. When they are alone seated, they play the videos in their minds and start seeing themselves down, broke, sick and the devil ruling in their lives. Listen no amount of prayer can deliver people from this level of bondage. This is not to demean the place of prayer but to tell you that some things are not captured in the equation of prayer. After I am done explaining these, I will show you the path to victory. Notice again that the Bible talks of every high thing that exalts itself against the knowledge of God. Yes there are things that exalts themselves against the knowledge in this life, these are things that opposes what God said or says about you. For example, God said you are rich, then you find yourself living in poverty, in this case poverty becomes a high thing exalting itself against the knowledge of God which must be brought low to the obedience of Christ. The Bible says, by His stripes you were healed yet you find a sickness in your body confirmed to be incurable yet the knowledge of God said, you were healed by His stripes. Listen, what God thinks of you is called the knowledge of glory and by this knowledge, God wants you and me to live triumphantly and gloriously on earth. The Bible says, Hab 2:14: "For the earth shall be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord, as the waters cover the sea." God wants to fill us with this kind of knowledge of His glory such that we will be drawn and saturated  by it. You remember the Lord saying in Zech 4:7: “Who are you, O great mountain? Before Zerubbabel you shall become a plain: and he shall bring forth the headstone there with shoutings, crying, Grace, grace unto it." Here Zerubbabel had been faced with the ”high thing” that exalted itself against the knowledge of God for the work he was given to perfect, a mountain that told him that you cannot finish this building, the money that you put into this building will varnish like the waters that evaporates and disappears, this great mountain told him that no Zerubbabel you are not going anywhere with this building, nobody in your family ever finished anything they started and you’ll not finish again. But notice, Zerubbabel knew that God had said to him that it is by my grace that you’ll finish the building, that was the knowledge of God and of glory for him in that building, so Zerubbabel began shouting over the great mountain until the mountain was no more a threat to his building. Listen, there comes a time you must know how to reply to seemingly prevailing circumstances. God has supplied grace and strength for your rising. Look here, this great mountain was not a physical mountain, probably these were thoughts, strongholds and imaginations that attacked his mind when he started the work. The Bible tells us of how insignificant the thing Zerubbabel started to do, the Bible says Zech 4:10: "For who has despised the day of small things? for they shall rejoice, and shall see the plumb line in the hand of Zerubbabel with those seven; they are the eyes of the Lord, which run to and forth through the whole earth." The work was small at the beginning yet the end of it was to be very big. I can imagine how Zerubbabel struggled but he knew how to overcome by shouting grace, grace upon what he had laid his hand to do. This is the warfare that we have that is to bring our thoughts, imaginations and reasonings to the obedience of Christ. This means to set our minds upon that which Christ accomplished for us and which He is doing in us. When poverty tries to get into your mind, say out loud that for I know His grace that even though He was rich yet for my sake He became poor so that I may be rich. This is the shout of grace and of victory. They tell you that witches took your life and placed it in a bottle, you say out loud that for my life is hid with Christ in God. I’m untouchable, I live above witchcraft and their spells. The Bible says, whatsoever born of God, overcomes the world and this is the victory that we have, even our faith. Our faith in Christ Jesus is victory over the world. Remember He said, cheer up, for I have overcome the world. Listen, even in the face of seemingly impossible situations and prevailing circumstances we laugh because we know that Christ overcome the world. So all these things come to affirm their defeat and not to win over you. Christ is our blessed assurance in everything. I know that I know, victory is mine, I cannot be defeated in anyway. Listen, do you understand why Jesus said, nothing by any means shall hurt you? It means it does not matter the tricks of the devil, we will still beat him at his game. We are the higher power and authority in this life. Listen the real warfare is in our minds now, this is why we have the Word of God to meditate on, through meditation we shape our thoughts according to the knowledge of the glory of God and we form videos, those glorious imaginations. You cannot study and meditate on the Word of God in the light of the Spirit of God and continue seeing yourself sick, weak and beggarly not possible. This is exactly what God told Joshua when he began his assignment, the secret was to meditate upon the Word day in and day out, and God told him that by so doing you will make yourself prosperous and have a good success. Listen, meditation is a key to fruitfulness and increase. The Bible says, Ps 1:2-3: “But his delight is in the law of the Lord; and in his law does he meditate day and night. And he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, that brings forth his fruit in his season; his leaf also shall not wither; and whatever he does shall prosper.” I always tell people that it’s not how long you pray that determine the level of power you manifest but the level of revelation at work in your spirit is a determining factor. The key that opens the world of revelation is meditation. Meditation is journeying with the Lord in the realms of revelation. Many are praying yet they continue seeing themselves poor, broke and weak yet the Bible says, He is able to do exceedingly abundantly more than what we ask and think according to the power that works in us. Notice here, Apostle Paul talks about “what we think also”, this means our thinking patterns are confessions in the spirit realm. Mostly we think more than we speak using our mouth, this means our minds are making confessions more than our mouth. This is why it’s important that we fill our minds with the Word of God. Let’s dwell a little in this verse, that’s Ephesians 3:20. Let’s focus on the later part of it where it says, according to the power that works in us, Notice that this power is connected to what we speak and think either in prayer or outside prayer. The Bible says, death and life are in the power of the tongue, so here we have the power of tongue. A tongue is known for making utterance and spiritually speaking our minds have tongues as well, that’s why they make utterance which God hears and answers. The Bible says, as man thinks in his heart so is he. Here again we have the power of the mind. Listen, a tongue does not have the intelligence to function on it’s own, it’s ability to speak is governed by inner power. So in this case, God is able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or think according to the power that works in us. The power that works in us is the level of faith we have activated through the revelation of Christ put into our consciousness even as we pray with the same. So it’s very important to align your words with your thinking pattern according to God’s Word which births faith in us because that’s the power that activates the ability of God to do. Notice again that the word power is from the Greek word dunamis and this power is the power that performs miracles, it’s the power that rests upon armies, forces and host. Just imagine what you can become if you work on developing this power. Yes this power generates, builds and grows itself by the reason of use. It’s the power that we received when the Holy Ghost came upon us, this power helps us to produce results with evidences and proofs. This is the highest order of life in Christ Jesus. 

==================================================

END OF THE HIGHEST ORDER OF LIFE BOOK

==================================================
